Home - Solace
Solace Technologies
Solace Technologies is an Industry Leading Manufacturer of Remote
              Vehicle Starters and Vehicle Security Systems. Solace Systems are designed and built with innovative features,
              the highest quality control standards and are the most environmentally friendly remote
              starters on the planet. Solace Remote Car Starters and Car Alarms
              are specifically designed for the sensitive electronics of today’s
              vehicles.
Solace Technologies….The Evolution of Auto Connectivity.
Contact Us!
2-Way Remote Starters
Our 2-way remotes will let you know that your vehicle has performed the
                    desired request. When you send a command to start the car, it will confirm
                    that it received the command and they send back confirmation once the car has successfully started.
Learn More!
1-Way Remote Starters
The 1-way remote starters employ one way communication between the remote control and the vehicle. You push a button on your remote control and, as long as you are within operating range, the vehicle receives the command and performs the desired request. The advantage of a one-way system is going to be the price. It is going to cost less than a comparable two-way system.
Learn More!
Control Module
The SIC4 gives you more choices and solutions than any other remote starter, a choice on options, a choice on data modules, a choice on remotes and a choice on harnesses, all with a single micro size module. It can function as a remote starter, an alarm/starter combo, a stand-alone security system, or a simple keyless entry. Installations are lighting fast on all vehicles, not just limited number that can be done by data only.
Learn More!
Add-Ons
Looking to expand the features of your Solace system? Our Solace add-on accessories will upgrade and enhance your system to its fullest potential.
Learn More!
Solace Technologies Limited
4316 Savaryn Drive SW
Edmonton, AB T6X 1Z9