Nia-Malika Henderson CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, Net
Nia-Malika Henderson CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Parents, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Ann Phlomena JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Nia-Malika Henderson Biography and Wiki
Nia-Malika Henderson is an American journalist currently working for CNN as a senior political reporter, reporting on policies, politics, and people shaping Washington.
She joined the TV network in 2015, covering the 2016 election, President Donald trump’s administration, the Presidential transition, and the Democratic party. Prior to joining CNN, Henderson worked for ‘The Washington Post’ as a national political reporter.
Nia-Malika Henderson Age
She was born on July 7, 1974, in Hopkins, South California, United States. Henderson is 46 years old in 2020 and celebrates her birthday on July 7 every year.
Nia-Malika Henderson Height
Drawing from her photos, Henderson is tall in stature. Her height is around 5 feet 9 inches (Approx )
Henderson’s Photo
Nia-Malika Henderson Parents
At the moment, there is no available information regarding her parents or siblings. However, we will update this as soon as we have clear details.
Nia Malika Henderson Education
Henderson attended Lower Richland High School in Hopkins, South Carolina where she completed her high school education in 1992. She then joined Duke University graduating with a bachelor’s degree in Literature and Cultural Anthropology. Henderson received a master’s degree in American Studies from Yale University and a master’s degree in Journalism from Columbia University.
Nia Malika Henderson Husband  | Married
Henderson has been a bit closed off when it comes to her love life. She has not revealed any information about her love life. However, there were rumors about Henderson being in a romantic relationship with Glenn Beck. Glenn is well known as the television and radio presenter who is the founder of Mercury Radio Arts. The rumor about him being Henderson’s secret husband has no valid proof as Gleen met his first wife Claire several years back before 1983.
The couple later tied the knot and were blessed with two daughters named Mary and Hannah. However, their marriage ended up in a divorce. Glenn and Claire filed for divorce in 1994 as Glenn was struggling with drugs. After five years, Glenn remarried in 1999. He married his second wife Tania with whom he has two children named Raphe and Cheyenne.
According to the above information, it is only safe to say that Henderson has never been married to anyone. However, we will update this as soon as it happens.
Nia-Malika Henderson CNN | Sorority
Henderson works for CNN as a senior political reporter, reporter, reporting on policies, politics, and people shaping Washington. She reports for the network’s digital as well as television platforms. Henderson frequently appears as a panelist for CNN’s Inside Politics, CNN Tonight alongside Don Lemon, and The Situation Room alongside Wolf Blitzer.
She joined the TV network in 2015, covering the 2016 election, President Donald trump’s administration, the Presidential transition, and the Democratic party. Throughout the 2016 elections, Henderson reported on the Democratic and Republican candidates, covering Ben Carson’s unlikely bid, Donald Trump’s realignment of the Republican party.
Before joining CNN, she worked for “The Washington Post” as a national political reporter. During her stay at “The Washington Post”, Henderson covered the White House, the 2010 mid-term elections, the 2012 presidential campaign, and anchored The Post’s Election 2012 blog.
Henderson’s career journey began as a writer, where she wrote for “The Baltimore Sun” and later wrote for “Newsday’s” national staff. During her time at the “Newsday’s,” she served as the lead reporter covering Obama’s 2008 campaign, the Democratic National Convention, the Democratic primary race, and the first two years of Obama’s administration for Politico.
Some of Henderson’s colleagues at CNN:
Ryan Young – Correspondent (Chicago)
Jason Carrol – Correspondent.
Sharon Collins – Anchor (Atlanta)
Kate Bennett – White House Correspondent (Washington)
Victor Blackwell – Correspondent and Anchor (Atlanta)
Kyung Lah – Senior National Correspondent (Los Angeles)
Jim Sciutto – Chief National Correspondent
Stephanie Elam – Correspondent (Los Angeles)
Matt Rivers – International Correspondent  (Mexico)
Shimon Prokupecz – Crime & Justice Correspondent (New York)
Brian Todd – Correspondent (Washington)
Kaitlan Collins – White House Correspondent (Washington)
Nia-Malika Henderson Salary
She is mostly known for her work as CNN’s senior political reporter. Henderson’s estimated salary is around $100k.
Nia-Malika Henderson Net Worth
Having worked in the media industry for quite some time now, Henderson has been able to secure a good fortune. Her estimated net worth is around $5 million.
Nia-Malika Henderson Twitter