FINCA CORTESIN HOTEL GOLF & SPA - Updated 2022 Prices &  Resort Reviews (Casares, Spain) - Tripadvisor
Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa
586 reviews
#1 of 1 resort in Casares
Carretera de Casares, s/n, 29690 Casares Spain
Check In — / — / —
Check Out — / — / —
Guests —
(513)
Traveler (411)
Room & Suite (71)
Pool & Beach (62)
About
4.5
Excellent
586 reviews
#1 of 2 hotels in Casares
Location 4.4
Cleanliness 4.9
Service 4.7
Value 4.2
In the heart of the Spanish Costa del Sol between Marbella and Sotogrande, overlooking the warm Mediterranean there is a place where nature gently vanishes into the deep blue sea. A private community that offers members a personal sanctuary in an environment not found anywhere else. For those seeking an emotional connection to where they live this is arguably the last great property available by the Mediterranean. This impressive resort is located in one of the most peaceful and upcoming areas of the Mediterranean coast in the municipality of the picturesque village of Casares, just 1,5km from the beach and within easy access, by motorway to the international airports of Málaga and Gibraltar. Set on a 215-hectare estate, 150 of which is designated green belt area, the development centres around 5 extensive areas: Hotel, Golf, Spa and Sports Club, Beach Club and Residential Area. Hotel Finca Cortesin is designed to enchant every one of the senses. The hotel's fresh but grand design is inspired by traditional Andalusian architecture and gives every area a big, bright and luxuriously spacious feel that is so rare in Europe. Built around two principle courtyards with palatial proportions, the hotel has 67 large, luminous and exquisitely designed suites with lofty 4m high ceilings ranging from 50 to 200m². With 23.000 m2 of manicured gardens, luxurious spa, 3 pools, tennis and paddle courts, impressive 6.000 m2 beach club, exquisite cuisine and an ambiance of tranquility, elegance and refinement, it is a destination that invites you to return. Come discover why Finca Cortesin has been named the 'Best National Resort' in the country by Conde Nast Traveller magazine.
Read more
Property amenities
Free parking
Free High Speed Internet (WiFi)
Pool
Fitness Center with Gym / Workout Room
Bar / lounge
Golf course
Tennis court
Babysitting
Show more
Room features
Soundproof rooms
Bathrobes
Air conditioning
Desk
Housekeeping
Interconnected rooms available
Minibar
Flatscreen TV
Show more
Room types
Mountain view
Ocean view
Pool view
Bridal suite
Non-smoking rooms
Suites
Family rooms
Smoking rooms available
Good to know
HOTEL CLASS
HOTEL STYLE
Quiet
Languages Spoken
English, French, Spanish, German
Location
Contact
Carretera de Casares, s/n, 29690 Casares Spain
Name/address in local language
Getting there
Malaga Airport 45 mi See all flights
North Front Airport 18 mi See all flights
Rental Cars See all Casares rental cars
See all nearby hotels
Nearby restaurants
Indian Restaurant Chilli La Duquesa
366 reviews
2.9 mi Mexican
El Galeon
224 reviews
4.7 mi Mediterranean
La Carbonara
445 reviews
4.4 mi Italian
Arroyo Hondo
627 reviews
4 mi Asian
See all nearby restaurants
Nearby attractions
Riding Fun In The Sun
419 reviews
4.6 mi Horseback Riding Tours
SIGNUM Escape Room
193 reviews
4.6 mi Escape Games
Centro Historico de Estepona
1,966 reviews
5 mi Points of Interest & Landmarks
Ruta de Murales Artisticos
173 reviews
4.8 mi Points of Interest & Landmarks
See all nearby attractions
PRICE RANGE
ALSO KNOWN AS
LOCATION
Casares
NUMBER OF ROOMS
Frequently Asked Questions about Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa
Which popular attractions are close to Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Nearby attractions include Riding Fun In The Sun (4.6 miles), SIGNUM Escape Room (4.6 miles), and Centro Historico de Estepona (5.0 miles).
See all nearby attractions.
What are some of the property amenities at Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Some of the more popular amenities offered include an indoor pool, free wifi, and an on-site restaurant.
See all property amenities.
Which room amenities are available at Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Top room amenities include a minibar, air conditioning, and a flat screen TV.
See all room amenities.
What food & drink options are available at Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Guests can enjoy an on-site restaurant, a lounge, and a poolside bar during their stay.
Learn more.
Is parking available at Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Yes, free parking and valet parking are available to guests.
Learn more.
What are some restaurants close to Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Conveniently located restaurants include El Galeon, Indian Restaurant Chilli La Duquesa, and La Carbonara.
See all nearby restaurants.
Are there opportunities to exercise at Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Yes, guests have access to an indoor pool, a fitness center, and a sauna during their stay.
Learn more.
Does Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa have an airport shuttle?
Yes, Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa offers an airport shuttle for guests. We recommend calling ahead to confirm details.
Learn more.
Does Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa have airport transportation?
Yes, Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa offers airport transportation for guests. We recommend calling ahead to confirm details.
Learn more.
Are any cleaning services offered at Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa?
Yes, dry cleaning and laundry service are offered to guests.
See all property amenities.
Does Finca Cortesin Hotel Golf & Spa offer any business services?
Yes, it conveniently offers a business center, meeting rooms, and a banquet room.
See all property amenities.
Want more?
See more questions & answers about this hotel from the Tripadvisor community.