Melanie Zanona lives a delightful life with husband Jason Robert
July 10, 2019,
By Admin
Reporter
Melanie Zanona
Quick Facts of Melanie Zanona
Full Name Melanie Zanona
Net Worth $0.2 Million
Marital Status Married
Birthplace Chicago
Ethnicity White
Profession Congressional reporter
Nationality American
Active Year 2010-Present
Eye colour Brown
Hair colour Brown
Build Slim
Spouse Jason Robert
Education University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Online Presence Facebook, Twitter
Melanie Laura Zanona, a.k.a. Melanie Zanona, is a congressional reporter and Huddle author at POLITICO. Before landing at POLITICO, she was a staff reporter for The Hill, where she primarily covered House leadership. Ere that, she served as a policy and legislative action reporter for CQ Roll Call.
Being in the spotlight, her audiences are curious to know more about her. Is Zanona Married? If so, who is her husband? What’s her net worth in 2021? Scroll Down to get the answers
Early Life of Melanie Zanona
Melanie Zanona was born in Chicago. She holds an American nationality and belongs to a white ethnic background. However, she has not disclosed her date of birth, parents, and siblings.
Further, she is a proud graduate of Illinois, earning B.A., News-Editorial Journalism in 2010.
Melanie Zanona CNN career
Zanona started her career in Washington as a features writer for Roll Call in 2010. Later, she became a legislative and policy reporter for Congressional Quarterly. Also, she has written extensively about President Trump’s infrastructure plan, the White House’s travel ban, and U.S. foreign policy toward Cuba.
MELANIE ZANONA
As Nancy Cordes and Lisa Desjardins, Zanona has contributed on-air interviews for national media outlets like MSNBC, Fox News, CNBC, and CNN.
Melanie Zanona Husband
Zanona is a married woman. She exchanged the vows with her long-time boyfriend, Jason Robert, in 2013. Her spouse is radio co-host at Gray Area’s Podcast and Account Executive at Washington nationals. The duo met while in high school and started dating.
Melanie Zanona and Jason Robert Wedding
In her leisure time, she enjoys cooking Italian food with her husband, playing with her Boxer puppy, and keeping up with her favorite Chicago sports teams. The couple lives a blissful life without news and rumors of extra-marital affairs and divorce.
Melanie Zanona and her husband, Jason Robert
Besides, there are no records of her past affairs, relationship, or boyfriend.
Melanie Zanona Age and Body Measurements
Zanona stands at a decent height. She has maintained her body fit and slim, but the actual measurement is unknown. Further, her hair and eye color are brown. As of 2021, her age is under review.
Melanie Zanona Salary and Net Worth
As of 2021, her net worth is estimated at $0.2 million. Not to mention, she has earned her wealth widely through her successful journalism career. Since 2010, she has been active in the industry for CQ Roll Call, Crain Communications, Tribune Company, and Better Government Association.
Currently, she is working as a congressional reporter, and her annual salary is reported $45,289.
Nevertheless, there is no information about her real estate property and cars.
Congressional reporter CQ Roll Call Melanie Zanona POLITICO The Hill