Boris Sanchez | Wiki/Bio, Net Worth, Wife, CNN, Age, Jennifer Piekut, Net Worth and Salary
April 15, 2022
Boris Sanchez | Wiki/Bio, Net Worth, Wife, CNN, Age,  Jennifer Piekut, Net Worth and Salary
News Reporter
Table of Contents
Who is Boris Sanchez ?
Wiki/Bio
How old is Boris Sanchez ?
How Tall is Boris Sanchez and Weight
Who is Boris Sanchez Wife ? | Jennifer Piekut
Boris Sanchez Career Overview
Boris Sanchez CNN
Boris Sanchez Net Worth and Salary
Social Media
Who is Boris Sanchez ?
Boris Sanchez in the swin
Boris Sanchez, an American journalist, is currently covering Donald Trump’s White House as CNN’s White House correspondent. In 2017, he moved to Washington, D.C. and reported on world leaders’ visits, major policy decisions, as well as key staff departures.
Sanchez joined CNN as a national correspondent in New York in June 2015. Before joining CNN, Sanchez worked as a national correspondent based in New York at FOX 31 Denver. He anchors the 10 p.m. newscast and has contributed coverage to all of the stations’ programs since 2012.
Wiki/Bio
Name
Boris Sanchez
Birth Place
USA
Date Of Birth
15 November 1985
Age
36 years old
Height
6 feet 5 Inches
Weight
81Kg
Net worth
$2million
Wife
Jennifer Piekut
How old is Boris Sanchez ?
He was born in Havana (Cuba), the United States, on 15 November 1985. Sanchez is 36 years old at the moment.
How Tall is Boris Sanchez and Weight
Sanchez stands tall, according to his photos. His height is approximately 6 feet 5 Inches (6.82 m).
Who is Boris Sanchez Wife ? | Jennifer Piekut
Boris Sanchez CNN
Sanchez is married to Jeniffer Piekut, his beloved wife. They were married in Truckee (California) on 17 September 2016. Unfortunately, we don’t have much information about their marriage. We don’t know if they have children.
Read also: Tom Vitale, Valerie Bertinelli’s Husband | Biography, Net worth, age, career and Body measurements
Boris Sanchez Career Overview
He is a CNN White House correspondent and covers the president’s presidency. He has reported on major policy decisions, the visits of world leaders, and staff departures. Jennifer Peikut, his wife. He earns an A.A. in journalism at Miami Dade College. He then attends Syracuse University to receive a Bachelor’s degree in broadcast journalism.
It was discovered that Boris joined CNN in January 2016 as a New York-based journalist. Boris travelled across the country in 2016 to meet voters. On 8 August 2020, he had an argument with Trump supporters. In order to increase their chances of winning the election, he claimed that Democrats exaggerated Coronavirus (COVID-19) threat.
Boris Sanchez CNN
Boris Sanchez CNN
Sanchez is a CNN White House correspondent who covers Donald Trump’s administration. In 2017, Sanchez moved to Washington, D.C. and reported on world leaders’ visits, major policy decisions, staff departures, and other important events.
Sanchez began his career at CNN as a national correspondent in New York in June 2015. He later moved to Miami, Florida, one year later. Sanchez has reported on many breaking news events, including the Fort Lauderdale Airport shooting in 2017 and the Orlando Pulse Nightclub massacre in 2016.
Boris Sanchez Net Worth and Salary
Boris Sanchez
His net worth is estimated at $2 million. Sanchez, who has worked in the media sector for a while now, has enjoyed a lot of success. His work as CNN’s White House correspondent is what makes him most famous. Sanchez is paid an annual salary of approximately $70,000.
Social Media
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
CNN anchor to Trump supporter: What you're saying is unscientific
Watch on
Tomi Lahren Biography Jamie Yuccas | Wiki/Bio, Haircut, Bikini Photos, Husband, Age, CBS News, Photos and Net Worth