Inside the November 2021 Issue - Sky & Telescope - Sky & Telescope
Inside the November 2021 Issue
By: The Editors of Sky & Telescope September 16, 2021 0
Get Articles like this sent to your inbox
*
Constant Contact Use.
SUBSCRIBE TODAY | ISSUE INDEX Buy This Issue
80 Years: Where We’ve Been, Where We Are, and Where We’re Going
In the November 2021 issue of Sky & Telescope, we’re celebrating our 80th anniversary by taking a look at the past, present, and future of astronomy. First, take a trip down memory lane with us as we examine how the amateur community and Sky & Telescope developed side-by-side. We also explore the life story of a dedicated observer and amateur telescope maker. As amateur astronomy progressed, so did its telescopes. Today, it’s easier and cheaper to buy an excellent ready-made telescope than ever before, so we investigate whether the old adage still stands: Is it more cost-effective to build a telescope yourself? Finally, after talking to professionals across the field, Sky & Telescope predicts what’s next for astronomy. Read about what may be coming down the pipeline for future missions and see our timeline of what astronomical discoveries we expect to see in the next 30 years. Among them, some will come from the telescope we've been waiting for, now almost ready for launch. We discuss what went into building the James Webb Space Telescope and what scientists hope to learn from this technological marvel.
FEATURE ARTICLES:
A Golden Age for Amateur Astronomy
Two veteran observers reflect on the hobby’s modest beginnings.
By William Sheehan and Klaus Brasch
Building the James Webb Space Telescope
A generation in the making, the James Webb Space Telescope is the synthesis of scientific vision, technological advancement, and engineering achievement.
By Paul H. Geithner
The Cutting Edge
We take a look at where astronomy research and exploration are (potentially) going in the future.
By Camille M. Carlisle, Javier Barbuzano, Jack O. Burns, Monica Bobra, Terri Dub é, and Lauren Sgro
Arc of an Amateur
Many an observer may recognize themselves in this stroll down memory lane.
By Howard Banich
To Build or Buy?
A purely pragmatic look at the cost of doing it yourself.
By Jerry Oltion
Beyond the Printed Page:
Methane Mystery
Find out what NASA’s Curiosity rover has learned about methane concentrations on Mars.
Meteorite Impacts on the Moon
Help the Association of Lunar and Planetary Observers spot meteorites hitting the surface of the Moon.
Astronomy Sketches
Enjoy more of Sky & Telescope Contributing Editor Howard Banich’s homemade telescopes and astronomical sketches.
Amateur Telescope Making
Try your hand at grinding your own telescope mirror.
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE:
A Is for Andromeda
This ancient constellation leads in more ways than one.
By Fred Schaaf
An Almost Total Lunar Eclipse
Observers across North America get to watch the Moon slip through Earth’s shadow.
By Bob King
The Ever-changing Great Red Spot
Jupiter’s famous storm is the focus of a rich tradition of discovery by amateur astronomers.
By Thomas A. Dobbins
Water Carrier Line Dance
Tiptoeing along the celestial equator in Aquarius has its rewards.
By Ken Hewitt-White
Table of Contents
See what else November's issue has to offer.
Buy this issue now!