Arlette Saenz (ABC) Bio-Wiki, Age, Height, Fiance, Family, Net Worth
Arlette Saenz (ABC) Bio-Wiki, Age, Height, Fiance, Family, Salary, and Net Worth
October 28, 2021 admin Journalists in the United States 0
Arlette Saenz
Arlette Saenz Biography and Wiki
Arlette Saenz is a well-known American journalist and political reporter for CNN. She is widely known for covering Former Vice President Joe Biden and the 2020 presidential campaign.
Arlette Saenz Age and Birthday
Saenz was born on April 22, 1983, in Brownsville, Texas, United States of America. She is 38 years old as of 2021. Her birth sign is Aries. Arlette turns 39 years old on April 22, 2022.
Arlette Saenz Height and Weight
Arlette appears to be quite tall according to her photos, she stands at an average height of 5 feet and 5 inches (Approx.1.6m) and has a moderate weight.
Arlette Saenz Family
Saenz was born and raised in Brownsville, Texas, United States of America by her father Gilbert L Saenz, and Mother.
Further information about her siblings is currently under review and will soon be updated.
Arlette Saenz Fiance
Moving on to marital matters, Arlette has managed to maintain a low profile on matters concerning her love life, she prefers to stay away from the spotlight.
Further information about her romantic life is currently under review and will soon be updated.
Arlette Saenz ABC
Saenz has had quite an impressive career, started off her career as an intern with “Nightline” at ABC before returning to the network as a desk assistant. She served as a White House Reporter and Producer at ABC News in Washington, D.C. She was also a part of the network’s team covering President Donald Trump’s administration, Capitol Hill, and national politics.
She has contributed to ABC News Radio and writes for ABCNews.com. She has also reported on President Barack Obama’s administration and the 2016 presidential campaign. She moved across the U.S. and to many countries covering Obama, including his historic visits to Cuba, Hiroshima, and Kenya.
Arlette also reported on Vice President Joe Biden, including his 2016 decision-making process. In the 2016 presidential campaign, she reported and produced from key primary and caucus states, at primary and general election debates, at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, and the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
Arlette Saenz CNN
Saenz joined CNN in 2018 as CNN political correspondent based in Washington, D.C. She covered Former Vice President Joe Biden and the 2020 presidential campaign, including Biden’s response to President Trump asking foreign governments to investigate him and his son Hunter, the decision by Biden’s allies to form a super PAC to help his candidacy, and Biden’s.
Arlette Saenz Salary
According to BBC estimates, Arlette receives an annual salary ranging from $25,500 – $65,500. Her contract with the exact figures is yer to be released.
Arlette Saenz Net Worth
Saenz has a net worth of $650k as of 2021/22. This amount is from her extensive career among other investments.
Social Media
CNN
Be the first to comment