Rachael Bade Biography, Age, Height, Husband, Net Worth, Family
Rachael Bade
Age, Biography and Wiki
Rachael Bade was born on 19 July, 1989 in Tipp City, Ohio, United States, is an American journalist. Discover Rachael Bade's Biography, Age, Height, Physical Stats, Dating/Affairs, Family and career updates. Learn How rich is She in this year and how She spends money? Also learn how She earned most of networth at the age of 31 years old?
Popular As
N/A
Occupation
Journalist
Age
32 years old
Zodiac Sign
Cancer
Born
19 July 1989
Birthday
19 July
Birthplace
Tipp City, Ohio, United States
Nationality
United States
We recommend you to check the complete list of Famous People born on 19 July.
She is a member of famous Journalist with the age 32 years old group.
Rachael Bade Height, Weight & Measurements
At 32 years old, Rachael Bade height not available right now. We will update Rachael Bade's Height, weight, Body Measurements, Eye Color, Hair Color, Shoe & Dress size soon as possible.
Physical Status
Height
Not Available
Weight
Not Available
Body Measurements
Not Available
Eye Color
Not Available
Hair Color
Not Available
Dating & Relationship status
She is currently single. She is not dating anyone. We don't have much information about She's past relationship and any previous engaged. According to our Database, She has no children.
Family
Parents
Not Available
Husband
Not Available
Sibling
Not Available
Children
Not Available
Rachael Bade Net Worth
Her net worth has been growing significantly in 2020-2021. So, how much is Rachael Bade worth at the age of 32 years old? Rachael Bade’s income source is mostly from being a successful Journalist. She is from United States. We have estimated Rachael Bade's net worth, money, salary, income, and assets.
Net Worth in 2021
$1 Million - $5 Million
Salary in 2020
Under Review
Net Worth in 2019
Pending
Salary in 2019
Under Review
House
Not Available
Cars
Not Available
Source of Income
Journalist
Rachael Bade Social Network
Instagram
Rachael Bade Instagram
Linkedin
Twitter
Rachael Bade Twitter
Facebook
Wikipedia
Rachael Bade Wikipedia
Imdb
Timeline
2019
Bade joined The Post as a Congressional reporter in 2019 to cover the House Democrats' oversight of the Trump Administration. She has broken a number of high-profile stories on the Trump impeachment inquiry and appears on CNN as well as CBS "Face the Nation" and ABC's "This Week."
On December 18, 2019, the night President Donald Trump was impeached by the House, Bade tweeted a photo of herself and other Washington Post staff captioned with text “Merry Impeachmas!” The tweet was criticized on social media as celebrating the impeachment of Donald Trump. Bade deleted the tweet and said it was misinterpreted. Washington Post editor Marty Baron said the post was an "ill-considered" celebration of the end of a work day and not an endorsement of impeachment.
2012
Bade later covered the GOP's investigation of the 2012 Benghazi terrorist attack, then the party's subsequent probe of Hillary Clinton's private email use. She was promoted to Politico's Congress team in early 2016, where she wrote about Speaker Paul Ryan's leadership, winning an award for a magazine profile that first reported on Ryan's decision to quit Washington. She spent three years covering House Republicans and the party's transformation by Donald Trump, filing stories that illuminated GOP infighting over the future of their party and frequently dish behind-the-scenes details about how policy decisions were made.
2010
Bade was raised in Tipp City, Ohio, and gained a BA in political science and journalism from the University of Dayton in 2010. Before her journalism career, she was a classical ballet dancer, training with Pacific Northwest Ballet, Ballet Austin and American Ballet Theatre.
Bade started her journalism career in 2010 as a reporter at Congressional Quarterly and Roll Call. She joined Politico in 2012 to cover taxes, a beat that launched her career when the IRS targeting controversy broke. Bade closely followed the House Republican investigation of the IRS's treatment of conservative tax exempt groups and was the only reporter to interview Lois Lerner, the IRS leader at the heart of the scandal who asserted her Fifth Amendment right on Capitol Hill, refusing to answer investigators' questions.