Salena Zito Wikipedia Biography, Husband, Bio, Wiki, Age, Married
Home » political analyst »
Salena Zito Wikipedia Biography, Husband, Bio, Wiki, Age, Married
by Marathi.TV Editorial Team
Feb 6, 2021
7 Comments
Name Salena Zito Wedding & Marriage / Husband / Engaged / Boyfriend Married. See below for relationship details.
Profile Background / Wikipedia Information
Introduction :
Salena Zito is an American political reporter & journalist, most well-known for having interviewed many American Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the last few decades.
Family & Personal Life :
Salena Zito was born on September 29, 1959, in Pennsylvania.
Her family is half Italian and half Irish descent. Her husband’s name is Michael, and together they have two grown-up children, Glenn and Shannon, who also have their own children.
Career, Job, Salary & Net worth :
Zito has been a journalist for over two decades. Currently, she is a CNN contributor and became a columnist for the New York Post in 2016.
She has been a part of many radio programs and is also a board member of the “Center for Media and Public Policy” at the Heritage Foundation. Salena has been praised by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for her work.
She has interviewed many candidates for the American Presidency and Vice-presidency in the 21st century. She has also worked for the campaigns of George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush.
Before becoming a journalist, the gutsy woman has worn many hats – She has worked for the Pittsburgh Steelers, had her own pie business, and owned a theatre.
Work as an Author & Books Details :
In 2018, Zito published a book called “The Great Revolt,” alongside her fellow journalist, Brad Todd, and has another one, “The Great Divide,” which hasn’t been released yet.
Her book “The Great Divide” talks about the transition the U.S. government and the citizens had to go through when former reality star Donald Trump was elected American President, the most powerful position in the world. Salena says, she had spent three presidential elections hearing people’s frustrations, and she loved it, so the book was an effort to understand what drove people to vote in 2016”.
The book was positively received by other well-known journalists such as Peggy Noonan & even by Senator Tom Cotton.
Interesting Facts, Height & Trivia :
Salena is a big baseball fan, and she has described it as “not just a game.” Besides her work, she enjoys hiking and cycling, having completed a solo ride from West Newton, Pennsylvania, to Washington D.C.
Through the years, Zito has been mocked and despised for her political ideas. Other journalists who disagreed with her have often spoken ill about her, and some have even created fake profiles on social media to make fun of her ideology.
What made Salena gain more attention & following was the fact she predicted Donald Trump’s 2016 Presidential win. Some political blogs and digital platforms have defined her as “an authority on populism and rural politics.” In a world where no journalist was able to understand why Trump could be elected, she was convinced he would become President of the United States right after his first day of the campaign.
Apart from interviewing big governmental personalities, Zito’s passion is talking with thousands of people across the country, asking them what their thoughts are about the American system. She reached many neighborhoods through “shoe-leather” journalism, having traveled along the back roads of 49 states!
Age / How old / Birthday / Date of Birth / DOB September 29, 1959. As of 2022, she is around 63 years old.
Tags: CNN Contributor Salary | Guest List of CNN Contributors