Clifford - 3305X
Clifford 3305X
2-Way Security System
Clifford | Security | 3305X
1
2
3
Overview
Clifford® is proud to introduce our most affordable 2-Way security system which will wrap your vehicle in protection, with the most sophisticated electronic technologies available today, including the Stinger® DoubleGuard® shock sensor, Revenger® six-tone siren and Failsafe® Starter Kill. This state-of-the-art system also offers in-demand convenience feature like keyless entry.
(1 Reviews)
Tweet
Features
Includes 1-Way companion remote
Up to 1/4 mile range*
Revenger® 6-tone siren
Clone-Safe® Code-Hopping®
Security and keyless entry system
2 Auxiliary Outputs
Stinger® DoubleGuard® Shock Sensor
Directed SmartStart Compatible
Where To Buy
Download Quick Reference Guide
*Range based on line-of-sight, unobstructed testing in ideal conditions. Actual range will vary due to local conditions including, but not limited to, environment, terrain, physical obstructions, vehicle location and orientation, interference and other possible impediments.
**Additional parts and labor may be required.
Technologies
ESP2
ESP2 is Directed's exclusive serial communications protocol that allows extra ultra-security, high-speed communication between systems and enables many of Directed's key features.
Responder
Responder Systems are some of the most advanced 2-Way Security and Convenience systems in the world! The interactive display on the Responder remote confirms all commands - virtually instantly - with easy to understand icons, plus text!
SmartStart Compatible
If you already have a compatible Clifford remote start system in your car, the DSM300/DSM350 will add SmartStart capability to your system.
Now you can remote start or lock and unlock your car just by pushing a button on your Smartphone using the exciting new Clifford SmartStart app from Directed Electronics.
The simple graphical interface gives you control over the following features of your installed Clifford remote start or security/remote start system: Lock/arm, Unlock/disarm, Remote Start, Trunk release, Panic or car finder. You can also control multiple vehicles - great for families! - and assign more than one user to control a vehicle. It's easy with SmartStart!