Julie Banderas [2022 Update]: Life, Career & Net Worth - Celeb Doko
Julie Banderas: Personal Life, Career & Net Worth
Celebrity Journalist
Kalsang
August 19, 2021
0
New-York based anchor Julie Banderas works for Fox News Channel. She covers several captivating news for the network.
For covering the Republican National Convention, Banderas was honored with an Emmy Award. She was awarded in the Outstanding Single Newscast category.
Moreover, she got into the limelight in 2006 after clashing on-air with political activist Shirley Phelps-Roper.
Further, they had different opinions about the funeral protests, which led them to an air-air quarrel.
Banderas wasn’t supportive of the protest. She felt they weren’t respectful towards the martyrs and also the children.
Julie Banderas while working for CNN.
News correspondent Banderas is a strong personality who always speaks her mind. Similarly, she often criticizes former President Trump for his rude behavior.
When Trump bullied some of her Fox Network colleagues, she stood up for them. Meanwhile, Banderas is not her real name but her on-air name instead.
She uses it as her professional stage name, and Bidwell seems to be her legal name.
You can learn a lot more about Banderas’ life here. So, let’s begin with some of her quick facts.
Quick Facts
Full name
Julie Bidwell
Also known as
Julie Bidwell-Sansone, Julie Banderas
Date of birth
25th September 1973
Place of birth
Hartford, Connecticut, United States.
Current residence
New York City
Nationality
American
Ethnicity
Colombian, American
Religion
Christian
Height
5 feet 5 inches
Weight
60 kg
Body type
Hourglass
Eye color
Dark Brown
Hair color
Dark Brown
Skin color
Fair
Gender
Female
Sexuality
Straight
Horoscope
Libra
Birthstone
Sapphire
Lucky color
Yellow, Red, Green
Father’s name
Howard Dexter Bidwell
Mother’s name
Fabiola R
Siblings
Sister: Melissa Bidwell, four half-siblings
Marital Status
Married
Spouse
Andrew J. Sansone
Children
Two daughters: Addison, Avery
Son: Andy Harrison
Age
48 Years Old
Education level
Bachelor’s degree in Broadcast Journalism
University
Emerson College
Profession
Television News Anchor, Author
Years active
2000- Present
Other professions
Financial Contributor, Weekly reporter
Television Shows
America’s Newsroom, Sunday Housecall & Fox News Live
Net Worth
$12 million
Social media
Instagram, Twitter
Merch of Fox Channel
Fox Now, Fox News, Fox Sports
Last Update
April, 2022
Julie Banderas: Early Life and Education
On 25th September of 1973, Julie Banderas was born as Julie Bidwell. Besides, she is also known as Julie Bidwell-Sansone.
Also, she is Colombian native Fabiola R and English native Howard Dexter Bidwell’s daughter.
Further, she was born in Hartford, Connecticut, United States. Her father was a Navy veteran who founded Consolidated Precast Incorporation.
He was born in 1930 and died in 2010. Banderes’ mother was his second wife, and he had two other wives.
Further, she has a sister named Melissa from her biological mother.
Also, from her father’s first wife, she has four other half-siblings. In addition, her half-siblings are Susan Williams, Marybeth, Howard, and Tracy.
As for her education, she enrolled at Emerson College in Boston, Massachusetts, for her bachelor’s degree.
Eventually, in 1996, she graduated with a degree in broadcast journalism. Later on, Banderas commenced her career in journalism.
You may be interested to know about Christi Paul: Philanthropy, Book & Net Worth.
Julie Banderas: Body Measurement
Banderas stands an average height of 5 feet 5 inches and a decent weight of around 60 kg.
The news anchor has dark brown hair and beautiful brown eyes. Besides, she has an hourglass figure.
Her body measurement is 36-24-38, and she lives a healthy lifestyle. The news anchor maintains a balanced diet and exercises often.
Julie Banderas: Career
Julie Banderas is professionally a television news anchor and works with a New York-based channel, Fox News. Currently, she is the general news correspondent there.
In addition, she works there on weekdays as a fill-in anchor. However, she officially joined the channel in the March of 2005.
Julie Banderas posing for a camera
Initially, she began working as a general assignment reporter. Later in 2008 took the anchor position for Fox Report Weekend.
Moreover, she replaced another anchor Laurie Dhue for that position.
Before working at Fox Network, she was a part of the FNC channel. During her time there, she covered many huge stories.
Previously, she worked for CW-affiliated channel WLVI-TV.
Further, she was an employee at WHSV-TV, where she took the job of a local news anchorwoman.
Also, Banderas worked with WFSB-TV in Connecticut, WNYW in New York City.
In addition, she has hosted the American news talk show The Big Story Weekend.
Furthermore, she has worked on different news shows such as America’s Newsroom, Sunday Housecall, and Fox News Live.
Cover Stories
Banderas is a rotating anchor of FOX’s New Day news program and does various news coverage.
In addition, she did the live coverage of the crash landing at LaGuardia Airport of Southwest Flight 345.
Besides, she covered stories of Hurricane Sandy and the inauguration of Pope Francis. Also, she did coverage of the New York City mayoral race of 2013.
During Hurricane Dennis in 2005, she worked with FNC Channel.
Moreover, the same year, she shared the news of a U.S Student, Natalee Holloway, missing in Aruba.
Furthermore, she covered the murder story of Jessica Lunsford, a 9-year-old girl. A registered sex offender brutally killed her—also, the legal case of Florida-based Terri Schiavo.
Recently in 2021, she talked about the bullying incident of television personality Chrissy Teigen on her show.
Formerly, Teigen had tweeted mean things about some people.
Teigen had apologized for her ill behavior. However, Banderas wasn’t pleased with the apology as she didn’t find it acceptable.
She bashed Teigen by saying she isn’t even that hot and further told herself she should cancel.
c John John Florence: Early Life, Career & Net Worth.
Julie Banderas: Personal Life
News anchor Julie Banderas tied the knot with Andrew J. Sansone on 29th August 2009.
In addition, they married in the United States at Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church.
Moreover, the New York Times covered their marriage in the newspaper. Also, the couple shared a video showing how they met.
Her husband Andrew J. Sansone is a board director of a non-profit organization, Habitat for Humanity. Also, he is the president of the Big Apple Channel and Old Rock Media.
Previously, she announced her engagement on 21st September 2008.
Similarly, the news anchor revealed it on an episode of the news program, America’s Election Headquarters.
Julie Banderas with her family
Her husband Sansone proposed to her during their beach holiday.
Moreover, he wrote a message in a bottle to propose to her. But, he acted like he found the bottle.
Their love story first started when Banderas hosted a Habitat for Humanity event managed by Sansone.
Eventually, Sansone asked Banderas for a dinner date, and they started dating afterward.
Also, the couple has three children Addison Melissa, Avery Julie & Andrew Harrison together.
In addition, their first-born daughter Addison was born in April 2010 & another daughter Avery in November 2012.
Similarly, Banderas’ youngest child, a boy Harrison was born in May 2016.
The family is currently residing in New York City. In addition, Banderas has two pet dogs who are named Coco and Koda.
Julie Banderas: Net Worth
American news anchor Julie Banderas is estimated to have a whopping net worth of $12 million.
From her job as a Fox news anchor, she receives an average salary of $83,101.
She earns enough to live a luxurious life from her career as a reporter and author. Banderas is currently residing in her house in New York City.
Formerly in 2012, she purchased a 2.5 bathroom and two-bedroom apartment in Central Park for $2.38 million.
You may be interested to know about Cheryl Casone: Early Life, Career & Net Worth.
Julie Banderas: Social Media
News anchor Julie Banderas is active on various social media. On Instagram, she has around over 7.5k followers.
Moreover, the news anchor shares photos of her children, dogs, and her daily life.
Similarly, on Twitter, she shares her voice and opinions. In addition, Julie has over 95k followers. She joined Twitter in January 2009.
FAQs
Is news anchor Julie Bandes of mixed heritage?
Yes, she is of mixed heritage as her mother is Colombian and her father is American. However, she identifies herself as an American.
Who is the current highest-paid female anchor on Fox News?
Currently, Megyn Kelly bags $123 million annually from her show, The Kelly Five. She joined the network in 2004 as a news correspondent.
Who is the highest earning news anchor of 2021?
Sean Hannity of Fox Channel Network is the highest-earning news anchor of 2021.
In addition, he takes home an annual salary of $40 million. Similarly, his net worth is estimated to be $250 million.