Rachael Bade Wiki, Bio, Wedding, Politico Reporter, Age, Ballet Dance
Home » political analyst »
Rachael Bade Wiki, Bio, Wedding, Politico Reporter, Age, Ballet Dance
by Marathi.TV Editorial Team
Feb 19, 2021
2 Comments
Name Rachael Bade Age / How old / Birthday / Date of Birth / DOB As of 2022, she is around 32 years old.
Wikipedia Biography / Profile Information
Introduction :
Rachael Bade, the blonde Ohio native & University of Dayton alumna is a reporter for Politico, a political journalism company, based in Washington, D.C.
Bade is a practicing Catholic & a professional ballet dancer.
Parents, Family Background & Education :
Rachael was born and raised in Tipp City near Dayton, Ohio. Tipp City was earlier known as Tippecanoe and has a population of only around 10,000 people.
In June 2016, Rachael got married to her husband, Alex Bishop. She now lives with her husband in Washington, D.C.
After high school, Bade started college in 2006 at the University of Dayton, a Catholic research university in Dayton, Ohio. While there, she was heavily involved in the Catholic church and related organizations and events.
Bade pursued a double major in Political Science and Journalism. In 2010, she graduated with her Bachelor of Arts degree.
While at Dayton, Rachael also wrote for the Dayton Business Journal. She was also the reporter for several of University of Dayton’s publications.
Career, Income, Salary & Net worth :
Right out of college, in May 2010, Rachael landed an internship as a Features Writer and Editorial Assistant for the Roll Call newspaper in Washington, D.C.
She did features for the Around the Hill section, discussing Capitol Hill. Rachael stayed at Roll Call until June 2011.
In June 2011, she moved to Congressional Quarterly to become a Legislative Action Reporter. She kept this job until September 2012.
From September 2012 to early 2015, Rachael worked as a Tax Reporter for POLITICO, a political journalism company in Washington, D.C. Here, she covered Politico Pro and the Morning Tax Blog.
As a tax reporter, Bade made a name for herself by covering the tea party targeting scandal at the IRS. To date, she has been the only reporter to have ever interviewed Lois Lerner, the official at the heart of the IRS scandal. Lois was held in contempt of Congress by House Republicans.
In early 2015, she was promoted to The Hill team to cover investigations in the GOP controlled Congress. She mostly followed Clinton’s email controversy & the GOP probe of the 9/11 Benghazi attacks, as well as alleged conflicts of interest at the State Department.
In the past few years, she has covered the House GOP leadership in the Trump era, including Ryan and his team’s relationship with the White House. She has written extensively on the GOP’s failed effort to repeal Obamacare, the tax reform, and the shutdown fights that bring Washington to a standstill almost every year.
Her coverage has also documented GOP infighting between conservatives, Trump allies, and the establishment. The young reporter has broken several stories on leadership jockeying, including the news that Ryan would retire and McCarty and Scalise would square off to succeed him.
Since the start of her career, Bade has made appearances on many news outlets, including CNN, Fox News, CBS, and MSNBC. She has become a regular on CNN’s “Inside Politics” and “Face the Nation” & started as a CNN contributor in Feb 2018.
Rachael alongside her co-author Karoun Demirjian, have written a book A Perfect Phone Call : The Impeachment of Donald Trump, which is scheduled to be released in May 2022.
Dancing Career :
In high school, Rachael had trained 30 hours a week to become a professional ballet dancer.
She trained under Barbara Pontecorvo for ten years, landing leading roles in many performances at Gem City Ballet, including Concerto Barocco, Serenade, Who Cares? and Valse-Fantaisie.
She has also trained with Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle for three summers & one summer in New York with American Ballet Theatre.
Bade has also danced with Ballet Austin in Texas.
She’s had lessons with Laura Alonso from National Ballet of Cuba & Dan Duell from Ballet Chicago.
Since she moved to Washington, D.C., Rachel has danced with MOVEIUS Contemporary Ballet, Dissonance Dance Theatre and Ballet ADI.
She’s also done smaller dance projects for the District’s Ballet Teatro Internacional.
Interesting Facts & Trivia :
In order to start at Roll Call, Bade turned down a full-time job offer to work in her hometown at Dayton Daily News.
She enjoys doing Bikram yoga as well as hiking and camping.
In March 2017, Rachael went on Twitter & said that Republican United States Representative Darrell Issa gave her the middle finger when she attempted to ask him a question about James Comey. Darrell denied these claims.
Rachael had first met her husband in sophomore year of college. They dated for nine years, before finally tying the knot in 2016.
Body Info / Physical Features
Rachael Bade Measurements :
Eye Color : Blue
Haircut / Hair Color : Blonde
How tall is Rachael Bade Height : 5’ 5”
Feet / Legs / Boots / Shoe Size : No confirmed information available.
Pregnant ? : Currently, she is not expecting a baby.
Personal / Home Details
Rachael Bade Married? : Yes
Children / No of Kids : –
Ethnicity / Origin / Heritage / Race : White
Rachael Bade Nationality : American
Wedding & Marriage / Husband / Engaged / Boyfriend Married. See above for relationship details.
Tags: Politico Staff Reporter