Kayla Tausche Biography – Net Worth, Salary, Husband, Wedding, Alma Matter
Home / Biography / Kayla Tausche Biography – American Broadcaster and Journalist
Kayla Tausche Biography – American Broadcaster and Journalist
Published Date   16th Sep. 2018, 16:36 pm
Quick Info
Birth Name:
Kayla McCall Tausche
Birth Place:
Minneapolis, Minnesota USA
Birth Sign:
Cancer
Eye Color:
Brown
Hair Color:
Blonde
Date of Birth:
17/07/1986
Age:
35 years old
Nationality:
American
Net Worth:
3.5 million
Qualification:
Bachelor in Journalism and International Politics
College:
University of North Carolina
Children:
Catherine Clancy Izant
Table of Contents
Kayla Tausche Net worth and Earnings
Tausche’s Husband and Firstborn Child
The American broadcast Journalist for CNBC, Kayla McCall Tausche is the anchor of Power Lunch and Squawk Alley. Kayla is one of the station’s political reporters based in Washington, D.C. Likewise, the stunning reporter also serves as a fill-in anchor for the network’s Business Da y programming.
The 32-year-old newscaster is happily married to her husband, Jeffery Jacob Izant. The adorable couple exchanged their vows on 11 April 2015. Moreover, the couple welcomed their first daughter, Catherine Clancy Izant on September 7, 2018.
Talented Kayla joined her Alma Mater in Greater Atlanta Christian School and graduated in 2004. Likewise, Kayla graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Business Journalism and International Politics from the University of North Carolina in 2008.
Kayla Tausche Net worth and Earnings
The talented and experienced CNBC news anchor, Tausche amassed a huge fortune and has an estimated net worth of $3.5 million as of 2018. Likewise, Tausche earns a hefty salary of $2 million from his profession annually. Comparing her net worth in 2016, Kayla’s Net worth has increased by 28.78%.
Years
Net worth
2018
$3.5 Million
2017
$3 million
2016
$2.5 Million
The financial analyst of News Corporation phone hacking scandal, Facebook IPO filing and Occupy Wall Street movement has earned fortunes from her career. Kayla earns a breathtaking salary and has a net worth of $3.5 million. Due to Tausche’s triumphant career, she has been able to accumulate an impressive net worth.
In an interview with Business Insider, Kayla mentioned being happy about having her co-worker Kelly Evans on CNBC. Likewise, Kelly has an estimated Net worth of $3 million.
The host of Squawk Box and Squawk on the Street, Tausche is CNBC’s general assignment reporter for news. Kyla mostly involves in corporate deals and finance. The talented newscaster has collaborated with various news portals likes MSNBC, Today, Weekend Today, NBC Nightly News, and so on.
Kayla and her husband showcase their Net Worth earned by her profession as a newscaster. Image source: Pinterest
According to Glassdoor, the average salary of a CNBC anchor is $647,061 annually. However, the talented news anchor and finance analyst, Kayla might receive a full-scale salary because of her experience in the field.
kaylatausche Verified
12.1K followers
View profile
kaylatausche Verified
1,131 posts
                  ·
                  12.1K followers
View more on Instagram
Comment Share Save
180 likes
Add a comment... Instagram
The stunning newscaster owns a luxurious BMW x5 which has an average price that ranges from $23,491 to $28,133. The successful newscaster and her beloved husband shower each other with gifts and flaunt their expensive lifestyle on their social media.
Tausche’s Husband and Firstborn Child
The happy couple, Kayla and her then-boyfriend, Jeffery Jacob met in the year 2013. However, the pair decided to secretly date for a few years before officially walking down the aisle in 2015.
The CNBC host, Kayla, and Jeffery married in April in the year 2015.
Image source: Kayla/Instagram
There was no news of Kayla and Jeffery’s romantic relationship until her wedding announcement in 2015. Likewise, the lovebirds tied the knot on April in the year 2015 in the presence of family and few friends. The auspicious ceremony was performed by Msgr. Francis G. McNamee at the Cathedral of Christ the King in Atlanta
Kayla’s husband Jeffery is a law clerk to Judge Nicholas G. Graufis and works in the United States District Court.  The groom has graduated cum laude from Princeton and received a law degree from Columbia.
Kayla and her husband, Jeffery had their expensive and exotic honeymoon in the romantic island of Mediterranean. Likewise, the pair is head over heels for one another and are spotted traveling to various Europian countries.
Kayla and husband, Joffery have a beautiful baby daughter, Catherine Clancy Izant. Image source: Kayla/Instagram
Despite being a workaholic pair, Kayla and Jeffery share a happy married life. Moreover, the couple welcomed their firstborn daughter Catherine Clancy Izant in the first week of September 2018. The healthy baby girl was born in Sibley Memorial Hospital and weighs 7lb 2oz on her birth.
SuperbHub for News and Entertainment.
Tags: Business Day, Catherine Clancy Izant, Celebrity Babies, Celebrity Marriage, Celebrity Relationship, CNBC, Facebook IPO filing, Jeffery Jacob Izant/ Kayla Tausche, Kelly Evans, Msgr. Francis G. McNamee a, MSNBC, NBC Nightly News, News Corporation phone hacking scandal, Nicholas G. Graufis, Occupy Wall Street movement, Power Lunch, Squawk Alley, Squawk Box and Squawk on the Street, Today, Weekend Today
Leave a Reply