Alicia Acuna Bio, Age, Family, Husband, eye injury, Salary, Net Worth, CNN
Uncategorized
Alicia Acuna Bio, Age, Family, Husband, eye injury, Salary, Net Worth, CNN
By Admin
Dec 22, 2021
Alicia Acuna Biography
Alicia Acuna joined FOX News Channel (FNC) in 1997 and is presently working in the network’s Denver bureau as a general assignment reporter.
Alicia Acuna Age
Alicia is 50 years old as of May 27, 2020. She was born on May 27, 1970, in Whittier, California.
Alicia Acuna Family
Acuna grew up in Arizona and California’s southern regions. When she was 13 years old, her parents split, and her father relocated to San Diego, California. After conducting our study, we discovered that little is known about Alicia’s parents and that she does not have any siblings.
Alicia Acuna Husband
Alicia is married to Brian Daniel Boyd. The couple had been dating for sixteen years and married in April 2004. Alicia’s spouse was diagnosed with cancer in 2009, but he was able to fight it. Every year after her cancer-free spouse was cured, Alicia posts updates on social media about him.
Alicia Acuna Height
Acuna stands at a height of 5 feet 5 inches (1.65m).
Alicia Acuna Net Worth
Acuna has an estimated net worth of about $1 Million – $5 Million. She has been in the media industry for quite a long time. She has no doubt amassed a huge fortune with the bulk of her wealth coming from her professional journalism career.
Alicia Acuna Salary
Based on tenure and expertise, anchors make anywhere from $40,000 (freelance) to several million.
Alicia Acuna Photo
Alicia Acuna Career
Acuna was most recently featured on FNC’s Democracy 2020 election coverage, where he offered the most recent breaking election news from Arizona. She has covered a range of important breaking news topics and has been a key part of FNC’s political coverage during her time there. Acuna has covered the coronavirus pandemic, wildfires in the Western United States, the opioid crisis, the Ebola outbreak, and the aftermath of the terrible May 2013 EF5 tornado, among other events, reporting live from Moore, Oklahoma.
She was a weekday anchor/reporter for KSEE-TV (NBC) in Fresno, California, where she anchored the 5 p.m. broadcast before joining FNC. She also worked for KGET-TV (NBC) in Bakersfield, California, as a weekend anchor/reporter, anchoring the 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts. Acuna began her career as an assignment editor after graduating from Northern Arizona University. She was a finalist for the APTRA reporter of the year award in 1997 and completed a fellowship at CBS News’ national headquarters.
Alicia Acuna Social media
Her contacts are not revealed. You can find her on her Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook accounts.
Pickle Wheat Bio, Age, Family, Boyfriend, Child, Net Worth, Swamp People