Kate Bennett CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Kate Bennett CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Parents, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Ann Phlomena JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Kate Bennett Biography and Wiki
Kate Bennett is an American journalist currently working for CNN based in Washington, D.C as the White House Correspondent. In addition, she is also co-author of CNN Politics COVER/LINE, the White House reporter for CNN, and co-host of the CNN Politics Cover/Line podcast.
Bennett’s roles include the Trump family, the first lady, the East Wing of the White House, society, the mashup of style, and the buzz in the nation’s capital. Prior to joining CNN, Bennett worked at various places including Politico, Washingtonian, Independent Journal Review, among other places. She was born and raised in Chevy Chase, Maryland and later relocated to Connecticut to attend a boarding school before she joined St. John’s College in Annapolis, Maryland where she graduated from
Kate Bennett Age
She was born and raised in Chevy Chase, Maryland, USA. However, information regarding Bennett’s date and year of birth is currently not available. therefore, we cannot tell her exact age.
Kate Bennett Height
Drawing from her photos, Bennet is quite tall in stature. her height is around 5 feet 7 inches (Approx 1.7 m).
Bennett’s Photo
Kate Bennett parents
She was born to her father, James K. Glassman, who is a former editor and co-owner of The New Republic’s Roll Call and also the President of the Atlanta Monthly. Her father was made the Public Affairs in 2008 under the former president Bush as well as the Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy. However, there is no available information in regards to her parents.
Kate Bennett Husband
Bennett is a happily married woman. The two are proud parents of one daughter. The family currently resides in the White House. However, there is no much information in regard to her husband.
Kate Bennett CNN
Bennett works for CNN based in Washington, D.C as the White House Correspondent. She has worked as a lifestyle journalist for almost two decades recording the intersection of people, politics, and pop culture.
. Her roles as the White Correspondent includes the Trump family, the first lady, the East Wing of the White House, society, the mashup of style, and the buzz in the nation’s capital.
Bennett launched a book entitled “FREE, MELANIA: The Unauthorized Biography”, which was published in December 2019. The book provides the first behind-the-scenes look at the life of the mysterious first lady in the history of the United States. She formerly co-authored the politics-meets-pop culture newsletter COVER/LINE with Hunter Schwarz. In addition, Bennett was a magazine and editor. Prior to joining CNN, Bennett worked at various places including Politico, Washingtonian, Independent Journal Review, among other places.
Some of Bennett’s colleagues at CNN include:
Natalie Allen – Anchor
David Culver -Anchor and Correspondent
Jeremy Diamond – Correspondent
Fredricka Whitfield – Anchor
Pamela Brown – Correspondent
Christine Romans – Anchor and Correspondent
Alexis Mcadams – Reporter
Ryan Young – Correspondent (Chicago)
Jason Carrol – Correspondent.
Sharon Collins – Anchor (Atlanta)
Miguel Marquez – National Correspondent (New York)
Victor Blackwell – Correspondent and Anchor (Atlanta)
Brynn Gingras – National Correspondent (New York)
Abby Phillip – Political Correspondent
Nick Watt – National Correspondent & Anchor (Los Angeles)
Jeff Zeleny – Senior Washington Correspondent
Kate Bennett Salary
She is mostly known as the White House correspondent for CNN and her hard work and determination towards her career. Bennett’s estimated salary is around $180,000 per year.
Kate Bennett Net Worth
Having worked in the media industry for quite some time now, Bennet is able to accumulate a good fortune. Her estimated net worth is around $2 Million.
How tall is Kate Bennett
Bennett’s estimated height is 5 feet 7 inches (Approx 1.7 m).
How old is Kate Bennett
She was born and raised in Chevy Chase, Maryland, USA. However, we do not know her exact age since her date and year of birth are currently unavailable.
Kate Bennett Twitter