Rebecca Quick Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, CNBC
Rebecca Quick  Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, CNBC
Posted by On 0 Comment
Rebecca Quick CNBC
Rebecca Quick Biography – Wikipedia
This is what you need to know about Rebecca Quick, an American television journalist/newscaster and co-anchorwoman of CNBC’s financial news shows Squawk Box and On the Money.
Rebecca Quick Age – Birthday
Quick was born on 18 July 1972 in  Gary, Indiana, United States. She is 48 years old as of 2020.
Rebecca Quick Height
Quick stands at a height of 1.64 m.
Rebecca Quick Family
Quick is a wife to  Matt Quayle and a parent of two. Little is known about her parents, also there are no details about her siblings, therefore this information will be updated as soon as it’s available.
Rebecca Quick Husband
Quick is happily married to her husband  Matt Quayle since 2008. On August 16, 2011, CNBC reported that Quick had given birth to a son, Kyle Nathaniel Quayle. In October 2016, Quick gave birth to daughter Kaylie Noelle. She was previously married to  Peter Shay, a computer programmer.
Rebecca Quick Salary
Quick receives an annual average salary of $ 3 million dollars. This is according to CNBC News anchors/reporter’s salaries.
Rebecca Quick Net Worth
Quick has an estimated Net Worth of $15 Million dollars. Her career as a journalist is her primary source of income.
Rebecca Quick Education
Quick graduated from Rutgers University in 1993 with a BA in Political Science, where she was editor-in-chief of The Daily Targum.
Rebecca Quick CNBC News
She has covered retail and e-commerce industry topics for The Wall Street Journal and helped launch the paper’s website in April 1996. She served as the site’s International News Editor, overseeing foreign affairs coverage.
She was a co-moderator of the October 28, 2015, Republican presidential debate. She has also interviewed three U.S. presidents, and hosted the 2007 television documentary “Warren Buffett: The Billionaire Next Door Going Global”.
She has been awarded the Times Mirror Fellowship from the Journalism Resources Institute at Rutgers. Prior to her employment at CNBC, she covered retail and e-commerce industry topics for The Wall Street Journal and helped launch the paper’s website in April 1996.
Rebecca Quick Twitter
Tweets by BeckyQuick