Directed - Directed's Clifford DS4 Systems Now Shipping
News and Press Releases
Home
About Us
News and Press Releases
Directed's Clifford DS4 Systems Now Shipping
Directed's Clifford DS4 Systems Now Shipping
VISTA, Calif. (November 20, 2017) – Directed today announces that Clifford® branded DS4 Digital Systems are now available and shipping, expanding the successful launch of the breakthrough DS4 technology.
Founded in 1976, Clifford® pioneered most of the innovations and features found in today's remote
                        controlled security systems. DS4 is Directed's flagship technology and is available in Viper®, Astrostart®, Autostart®, and now Clifford® brands. DS4 Digital Systems simplify and improve the remote start and security experience for consumers, installers, and retailers.
"Our goal in designing DS4 was to create the most powerful system in the industry," said Directed SVP
                        Product Development & Technical Service James Turner. "Clifford® DS4 opens up this exciting new
                        technology to a broader set of dealers. We've focused on protecting all our DS4 dealers. Each DS4 is
                        assigned to a specific account, and our Directechs website is configured so only that account can flash
                        the unit. This is true for all DS4 brands – it’s the most protected product we've ever offered."
The new DS4 Digital Systems feature four key technologies that are integrated into one single and
                        powerful device. Remote start, security, interface, and Bluetooth® all work together seamlessly with
                        the vehicle's existing systems to enable a connected-car experience like no other.
With DS4 comes DirectLink, a new proprietary wireless programming connection between the installer
                        and the system in the vehicle via integrated Bluetooth® technology, reducing installation time. DS4
                        systems also provide near-range smartphone control for consumers when paired with the FREE
                        Directed SmartStart mobile app.
DS4 offers new and exciting features that will drive consumers into authorized retailers, and this
                        configurable and expandable inventory reduces cost. DS4 provides faster installations which means
                        more vehicles through the bay, increasing profits. The available and optional shock sensor/tilt
                        sensor/temperature sensor allows DS4 Digital Systems to provide ultimate protection for the vehicle.
To learn more about this advanced technology, please visit www.directed.com/ds4 .
Not a Directed Dealer? Please visit Become a Directed Dealer or call 1-800-876-0800 to become a Directed Dealer today!
About Directed
Directed is a world leader in automotive electronics, the largest North American designer and marketer of consumer-branded vehicle security and remote start systems, and a pioneer in the connected car space. Its products connect more consumers to their vehicles than anyone else on the planet. Directed markets its broad portfolio (sold under Viper®, Clifford®, Python®, Autostart®, AstroStart® and other brands) through leading national retailers and specialty chains. For more information contact Chris.Pearson@directed.com.