Who Is Journalist Rachael Bade Married To? Also Know His Career and Net Worth
Home
Biography
Rachael Bade
Rachael Bade Biography
Biography by Maggie Cage Published on 12 Jul, 2019 Updated on 11 Nov, 2019
Facts of Rachael Bade
Date of Birth:
1989 , July-19
Age:
32 years old
Birth Nation:
United States of America
Height:
5 Feet
Name
Rachael Bade
Birth Name
Rachael Bade
Nationality
American
Birth Place/City
Tipp City near Dayton, Ohio
Ethnicity
white-American
Profession
Journalist
Eye Color
Blue
Hair Color
white
Face Color
White
Education
University of Dayton
View more / View Less Facts of Rachael Bade
Rachael Bade is a Washington-based Congress reporter whose main coverage area include House Democrats' supervision of the Trump administration as well as policy clashes with the White house. She also a CNN's political analyst. As of 2019, she is working at the Washington Post as a Tax reporter and has covered the stories of international tax evasion, gun taxes, and others.
Early Life Information Of Journalist Rachael Bade
Rachael Bade was born on 19th July 1989, in Tipp City near Dayton, Ohio. She belongs to white-American ethnicity and holds an American nationality.
Weekend half-marathon with Mom & Dad. Mom, 30 yrs my elder, smoked me, of course. But Justin Bieber Pandora radio got me thru (stop judging!!!) pic.twitter.com/WPssjahW4I
— Rachael Bade (@rachaelmbade) 10 March 2019
Regarding her education, she graduated with a double major in Political Science and Journalism from the University of Dayton. She also studied Bussiness Journal from the same university. She also earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 2010.
Rachael Bade's Career
Soon after her graduation, Rachael Bade started her career in Journalism working as the Writer and Editorial Assistant for Roll Call in May 2010. The following year, she got selected as the Legislative Action Reporter in the Congressional Quarterly.
At the Congressional Quarterly, she got recognized for covering lawmakers’ 2011-2012 failed attempts at postal reform. Moreover, Bade also worked as Tax Reporter for POLITICO, a political journalist company in Washington from September 2012 to early 2015.
CAPTION: Rachael Bade SOURCE: Zimbio
As a tax reporter, she interviewed Lois Lerner who was held in contempt of Congress by House Republicans as he was the heart of the IRS scandal. Similarly, she also covered House GOP leadership in the Trump era and has written on the GOP's failed effort to repeal Obamacare.
She has also made appearances on many news houses such as CBS, FOX News, MSNBC, and CNN. She became a regular on CNN's "Inside Politics", and Face the Nation" on Feb 2018.
Besides journalism, Bade is also a dancer as she was trained for 10 years. She has also performed at the Gem City Ballet like Concerto Barocco,  Who Cares?, Serenade, and also -Fantaisie. Moreover, she also participated in numerous dance project for the District's Ballet Teatro International .
How Much Is Rachael Bade's Net Worth?
Rachael Bade has involved in journalism for over a decade and has earned millions of dollars. As of 2019, her exact net worth has not been revealed but is considered to be in millions.
According to some online sources, POLITICO's reporter earns $54K annually, so, she probably earns at the same range.
Is She Married? If Yes, Who Is Her Husband?
The 30 years old Bade married her long-time boyfriend-turned-husband, Alex Bishop in a low-key wedding ceremony.    They shared the wedding vows on June 4, 2016, at Potomac Point Winery, a Tuscan-style mini vineyard in Stafford, Virginia. Following their marriage, they went for a two-week honeymoon in Italy.
As per the sources, the couple met each other for the first in 2007 and develop their relationship very soon. However, the detail on how they started dating each other is yet to find out.
CAPTION: Rachael Bade's wedding picture SOURCE: Zimbio
She has kept every detail of her marriage and family life to herself as she is a very private person. As of now, she resides with her husband in Washington, D.C.
Age, Height, And Other Facts
Age: As of 2019, she is at the age of 30.
Birth Sign: Cancer
Height: Bade stands at an average height of 5 feet 5 inches.
Weight:
Her body weight is around 60kg.
She turned down the full-time job in her hometown at Dayton Daily News to start her career Roll Call.
Her hobbies include camping, yoga, and hiking.
Rachael uses dance as her therapy.
Rachael Bade is practicing Catholic.
She is also a professional ballet dancer.
She has a natural blonde hair color and has hazel eyes color.
American journalist
Rachael Bade