Natasha Bertrand CNN, Bio, Age, Bryan Coxwell, Salary, and Net Worth
Natasha Bertrand CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Bryan Coxwell, Salary, and Net Worth
Dorcas JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Natasha Bertrand Bio | Wiki
Natasha Bertrand is an American well-known media personality. She currently serves as a White House reporter for CNN. Natasha’s main role at the network is to cover national security. She launched her journalism career by working for Business Insider as an intern in 2014. Later, Natasha was lucky enough to be appointed as a political correspondent.
With this promotion, her role changed and she mainly focused on covering US foreign policy as well as national security. During her time while working for  Business Insider, Natasha had the chance to report on the Steele dossier. From there, Natasha became part of The Atlantic news team as a staff writer in 2018. Shortly thereafter, she was named a political analyst for both NBC News and MSNBC. In 2019, she changed her direction and became a national security correspondent for Politico.
During that time, Natasha was among the team that consisted of leading writers who covered the US intelligence community as well as the impeachment inquiry against former USA president  Donald Trump. After the coverage, Natasha was named to Forbes’ “30 under 30 class” of 2021. She became a CNN White House reporter in April 2021 covering national security. Natasha’s first on-air appearance was on April 27, 2021, on New Day with Jake Tapper.
Natasha Bertrand Age
She was born on May 12, 1992, in New York, the United States of America. Natasha is 29 years old.
Bertrand’s photo
Natasha Bertrand Height
She is a woman of average stature. Natasha stands at a height of 5 ft 5 in ( Approx 1.65m).
Natasha Bertrand Family
She grew up in South Florida, United States of America. Natasha’s father, Alvaro Bertrand lives in Barcelona and is a  business enthusiast. Natasha’s mother is called Rachel S Kellogg. Because of her father, Natasha is forced to divides her time between the USA and Spain. She holds both American and Spanish citizenship.
Natasha Bertrand Sister
Natasha was born on 12 May 1992 in New York, USA to her father Alvaro Bertrand and her mother Rachel S Kellogg.  Alvado is a business enthusiast who lives in Barcelona.  Natasha grew up along with her sister named Charlotte Kellogg. They both grew up in South Florida and Natasha spent her time between the USA and Spain.
Natasha Bertrand Husband | Wedding
Currently, Natasha has a romantic relationship with a USA Army veteran called Bryan Coxwell. Bryan comes from Ohio and currently lives in New York and works as a security contractor and engineer.
Natasha Bertrand College
She graduated from The London School of Economics and Political Science ( LSE) where she studied Government and Philosophy. From there, Natasha enrolled for a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science and Philosophy at Vassar College. She graduated from college in 2014.
Natasha Bertrand CNN
Currently, Natasha serves as a White House Reporter for CNN based in Washington, District of Columbia, United States. She has covered national security and politics for POLITICO, The Atlantic, as well as Business Insider. She has been working for the CNN network for the last six months since Apr 2021. Prior to joining her current station, Natasha worked for POLITICO for a period of 2 years 1 month. She joined the network in April 2019 as a National Security Correspondent based in Washington, District Of Columbia.
Natasha held the role until Jan 2021 ( 1 year 10 months). From there, she was made the network’s White House Correspondent based in Washington DC-Baltimore Area. Natasha served that position for 4 months until Apr 2021. Before joining POLITICO, she served as a Contributor at NBC News for 3 years 2 months from Mar 2018 to Apr 2021. Prior to that, she was a Staff Writer—National Security/Politics for The Atlantic in Washington D.C. Metro Area. Natasha worked there for 1 year 3 months from Jan 2018 to Mar 2019.
Previously, she worked as a Political Correspondent for Business Insider in Greater New York City Area. Natasha served the station for 3 years 5 months from Sep 2014 to Jan 2018. Before that, she was a Corporate Social Responsibility Intern at IPIECA in London, United Kingdom. Natasha worked there for 3 months from Jun 2013 to Aug 2013. Prior to that, she was a Researching Intern at Fundación para las Relaciones Internacionales y el Diálogo Exterior (FRIDE) based in Madrid Area, Spain. Natasha worked there for 4 months from Jul 2012 to Oct 2012.
Natasha’s colleagues at CNN includes:
Julian Zelizer -comentator
Coy Wire -anchor
Nick Valencia -correspondent
Eleni Giokos -anchor
Ben Wedeman -correspondent
Jennifer Westhoven -correspondent
Lisa Respers France -reporter
Jacqueline Howard -health reporter
Allison Chinchar -meteorologist
Natasha Bertrand Msnbc | NBC News
Before joining POLITICO n April 2019 as a National Security Correspondent based in Washington, District Of Columbia. Natasha served as a Contributor at NBC News for 3 years 2 months from Mar 2018 to Apr 2021. Prior to that, she was a Staff Writer—National Security/Politics for The Atlantic in Washington D.C. Metro Area. Natasha worked there for 1 year 3 months from Jan 2018 to Mar 2019.
Natasha Bertrand Atlantic
She has covered national security and politics for POLITICO, The Atlantic, as well as Business Insider. Prior to working for POLITICO, Natasha served as a Contributor at NBC News for 3 years 2 months from Mar 2018 to Apr 2021. Prior to that, she was a Staff Writer—National Security/Politics for The Atlantic in Washington D.C. Metro Area. Natasha worked there for 1 year 3 months from Jan 2018 to Mar 2019.
Natasha Bertrand Salary
She earns her income from her current job as a White House Reporter for CNN based in Washington, District of Columbia. Natasha has an average salary of $69,925 per year
Natasha Bertrand Net Worth
For the few years that she has worked in the media industry, she has still managed to accumulate good wealth. Natasha has an estimated net worth of $713,154.
Who Is Natasha Bertrand
Natasha is an American well-known media personality. She currently serves as a White House reporter for CNN. Natasha’s main role at the network is to cover national security. She launched her journalism career by working for Business Insider as an intern in 2014. Later, Natasha was lucky enough to be appointed as a political correspondent.
Natasha Bertrand Twitter
Natasha Bertrand Instagram
Tracy Wolfson CBS, Bio, Wiki, Age, Parents, Husband, Feet, Salary, and Net Worth