3 Major Accomplishments of Galileo Galilei - HRF
You are here: Home/Major Accomplishments/ 3 Major Accomplishments of Galileo Galilei
3 Major Accomplishments of Galileo Galilei
There are some people throughout history that have made more of a lasting impression than others. The contributions that they have made have made an impact on the world that we live in today. Galileo Galilei is one of the few people that have been able to make an impact that is lasting. Before you make a judgment on the life of Galileo, it is important that you learn more about the accomplishments that he amassed.
Thermometer
If you have ever taken your temperature with the use of a thermometer, you have Galileo to thank. He is actually the person that is credited with the invention of the thermometer and is said to have invented it in 1606. This means that the next time you use the thermometer, you are using an invention that came from the mind of Galileo.
Galileo Galilei Biography
Microscope
One of the things that Galileo is most known for is his contribution to science and how he changed everything with the invention of the microscope. It should be noted that this is an accomplishment that is sometimes credited to Galileo by default. He is the one that is often recognized for inventing the microscope when in reality he only sketched and designed one. It was actually Anton Leeuwenhoek that invented the microscope, but most people actually assume that Galileo invented it. He is linked to its inception, so it is still seen as an accomplishment.
Telescope
It should also be noted that another one of his amazing accomplishments was making the telescope popular. He made many discoveries with the use of the telescope. However, the telescope that Galileo used was nothing like what we have today. It was a telescope that only magnified an image up to 30 times. This means that Galileo made discoveries using technology that was not as advanced as it is today. He is the one who is often credited with making some of the biggest discoveries in astronomy. Many of the things that he discovered are considered to be general knowledge today, but that was not the case during the time period when Galileo lived. Even the most basic discoveries changed the way that we view astronomy today.
Galileo is known for having a unique mind and always looking to discover something new. He is someone that made an imprint on this world and has many accomplishments to prove his importance.
Video unavailable
This video is no longer available because the YouTube account associated with this video has been terminated.