Cheri Jacobus【 Wiki Bio 】Age, Net Worth, Husband, Father, Fox News
Home » political analyst »
Cheri Jacobus【 Wiki Bio 】Age, Net worth, Husband, Father, Fox News
by Marathi.TV Editorial Team
Feb 16, 2021
1 Comment
Name Cheri Jacobus Wedding & Marriage / Husband / Engaged / Partner Currently not married, possibly single. Check the full bio for relationship details. See below for details.
Wikipedia Biography / Profile Information
Introduction :
Cheri Jacobus is an experienced writer, TV pundit, political strategist and a frequent guest on media networks like CNN, MSNBC, Fox News and CBS.
The past few years, she has been actively opposing Donald Trump’s Presidency.
Personal Life : Parents, Family & Education
Born in the early 1960s, Cheri is originally from Peoria, Illinois. Currently, she lives in Washington D.C.
She graduated from West Virginia University in 1982 with a Bachelor’s degree in Journalism. She has also studied Campaign Management at the American Campaign Academy in 1988.
Cheri Jacobus Cancer / Illness / Sick / Health Update : In early 2021, Cheri was diagnosed with cancer. A lymph node biopsy showed a “high mitotic metastatic malignancy”. The doctors were unable to find the primary tumor but suggested a treatment course of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. As Cheri is a single woman, with no spousal income to lean on, one of her friends started a GoFundMe page for her, with a goal to raise $250,000 and help her with medical expenses.
Career, Job, Salary & Net worth :
Cheri started her career working in various roles like Campaign Manager, Press Secretary, Communications Director, and Spokesperson for the GOP.
She was a Political Columnist for The Hill and USA Today publications for several years.
For many years, Jacobus was also an adjunct Professor at the Graduate School of Political Management at the George Washington University in Washington, DC.
She is the founder of Capitol Strategies PR, a Washington-based consulting and public affairs firm. Started in 1998, the firm remains active to date. She is also an editor at “A House United,” a center-right platform for anyone who is against the Trump Presidency.
After the Mueller Report’s release, Cheri started work on a project called – “America Reads the Mueller Report.” This half-hour program for local television networks aimed to present facts to people who might not have read the report & only heard about its summary from the mainstream media.
Opposing President Trump :
Quite active on social media, Cheri has faced a fair bit of criticism for some of her comments over the years. A staunch Republican, she became anti-Trump soon after his appointment to President and changed her political preference to undecided or independent.
Cheri sued Donald Trump, his Presidential campaign, and his campaign manager Corey Lewandowski for defamation in 2016 after they claimed that she became anti-Trump when they refused to hire her.
She demanded $4 million in a settlement after she was hit with a wave of public criticism when Donald Trump posted a tweet saying “She ‘begged us for a job. We said no, and she went hostile. A real dummy!”
Another time, she posted on Twitter that her 87-year-old father, who is a lifelong Republican and an active donator, didn’t vote for either side in the 2016 elections & that he’ll do the same if Elizabeth Warren runs for President in 2020. However, he will vote for the Democrats if Joe Biden were to run. Cheri concluded her tweet by saying, “this is useful information,” but she was faced with backlash from Trump supporters.
The replies were mostly criticizing her dad about how he would rather vote for another old white man than a woman and how a Republican was giving unsolicited political advice.
During the 2020 Presidential elections, she was an active supporter of Democrat candidate, Joe Biden.
Twitter Controversy :
Cheri’s biggest Twitter controversy started when she got into a “tweet war” with senior political writer, Mark Caputo.
The tweets back and forth started becoming personal as they progressed, and Cheri started including Mark’s daughters in her insults, adding that they had performed in Jefferey Epstein’s parties. Epstein is a deceased ex-financier and Bill Clinton mega-donor who was convicted in 2008 of soliciting sex from an underage girl for which he served 13 months in custody.<
The tweet sparked a quick backlash, and the conservative media & Trump supporters started to tweet at USA Today to demand that they fire Cheri over her comments. USA Today answered quickly to the criticism and dropped off Cheri and The Hill did the same soon after.
Cheri never deleted those tweets, and despite the ups & downs, Cheri’s Twitter account continues to have a large following of over 160K followers.
Body Info / Physical Features
Cheri Jacobus Measurements :
Eye Color : Hazel
Haircut / Hair Color : Blonde
Pregnant ? : Currently, she is not expecting a baby.
How tall / Height : No confirmed information available.
Weight Loss : A few Google queries regarding this, but we couldn’t find anything conclusive on any of her social media.
Personal / Home Details
Marital Status / Married? : No
Children / No of Kids : –
Ethnicity / Origin / Heritage / Race : White
Nationality : American
Age / How old / Birthday / Date of Birth / DOB No confirmed information available on her birth year or the date she was born.
Tags: Fox News Female Contributors