Jessica Dean CNN Bio, Age, Wiki, Salary, Net Worth, Husband, Family
Jessica Dean CNN Bio, Age, Wiki, Salary, Net Worth, Husband, Family and Birthday
Admin 0
Jessica Dean Photo
Contents hide
1 Jessica Dean Biography and Wiki
2 Jessica Dean Age and Birthday
3 Jessica Dean Education
4 Jessica Dean Parents
5 Jessica Dean Husband
6 Jessica Dean Career
7 Jessica Dean Salary and Net Worth
8 Social Media
Jessica Dean Biography and Wiki
Jessica Dean (August 22, 1985) is a CNN Washington correspondent on the headlines covering Joe Biden’s presidential campaign. She was born and brought up in Little Rock, Arkansas. Dean is also known for anchoring for Democratic National Convention for CBS3.
Jessica Dean Age and Birthday
Dean was born on August 22, 1985, in Little Rock, Arkansas, United States of America. She is 35 years old as of 2021. Her birth sign is Leo.
Jessica Dean Education
As for her education, The CNN Washington correspondent attended an unspecified high school in her birth state, from where she matriculated in 2003. She then relocated to California to attend the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School for Communication, from where she graduated cum laude with a bachelor of arts degree in broadcast journalism in 2007.
Jessica Dean Parents
Dean was born and brought up in Little Rock, Arkansas. Her father was reportedly a hunter. Jessica has one sibling, a sister named Rachel Dean Wilson.
Jessica Dean Husband
Dean is a married woman, She is married to Blake Spencer Rutherford, a business and communication strategist. The couple had their wedding on October 24th, 2009. The event was attended by close friends and family of the love birds.
Jessica Dean Photo
Jessica Dean Career
Jessica Dean started her career in 2006 at KNWA/KFTA in Fort Smith, Arkansas where she worked as an editor, photographer, reporter, and anchor. She was also linked with KATV as a reporter, anchor, and co-host. In August 2013, she moved to CBS as a weekday evening anchor.
She currently works as a CNN Washington correspondent. Prior to joining CNN, Dean worked at KYW-TV in Philadelphia where she was the co-anchor of the weekday evening newscasts. She covered a number of local and national political stories.
In 2017, she acted as a panelist for the New Jersey Gubernatorial Debate. She also reported the 2016 presidential race widely, anchoring live from the 2016 Republican National Convention in Cleveland, the 2016 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, election night from Hillary Clinton’s headquarters in New York City, and President Donald Trump’s inauguration in Washington, D.C.
Jessica Dean Salary and Net Worth
Dean earns an annual salary ranging from $92,000 to $123,500. From these figures, we estimate Jessica’s updated net worth at $400,000 as of 2021
Social Media
Instagram
Twitter