Alcazaba Lagoon · New development in Casares, Costa del Sol · newEstepona.com
Alcazaba Lagoon
Casares · Costa del Sol
1,4 hectare blue lagoon, 40.000 m² exotic gardens, 78 exclusive apartments
Purchase prices from 278,000 Euro
Project
for free
Unique: The lagoon
Alcazaba Lagoon is now a reality
Watch on
Alcazaba Lagoon is unrivalled on the Costa del Sol with a total of 1.4 hectares, excellent water quality and numerous leisure opportunities. Here not only connoisseurs and sun lovers will find a paradisiacal oasis far away from tourism, but also water sports enthusiasts will find attractive offers – from kayaking, paddling or sailing to wind or kite surfing. For swimmers there are also three separate areas for bathing with the whole family or the daily training session.
With their spacious living rooms, large balconies and terraces, the high-quality apartments offer a Mediterranean living feeling and meet even the most demanding requirements in terms of luxury and quality.
Your investment
Why you should choose a residence in Alcazaba Lagoon
Excellent location
In addition to its idyllic location near the mountain village of Casares, the lagoon offers ideal connections to airports, golf courses, restaurants and numerous amenities for daily needs.
Attractive price
Properties of high quality are currently in high demand throughout the Costa del Sol. Apartments in Alcazaba Lagoon offer an optimal price/performance ratio due to their location and equipment.
More life & style
The 1.4-hectare lagoon and the large tropical gardens create a multitude of opportunities for sports and relaxation and thus a great plus in quality of life.
Andalusia´s sun
Far away from hectic tourist centres, residents enjoy their private paradise in a sunny and mild climate all year round and can golf, hike or walk on the beach almost all year round.
Where is Alcazaba Lagoon?
Embedded in the hilly landscape of Andalusia near the mountain village of Casares, Alcazaba Lagoon offers a paradisiacal quiet location on the one hand and an ideal connection to all amenities of everyday life. While the picturesque village centre of Casares with its numerous small shops, boutiques and restaurants can be reached on foot in just 20 minutes, larger shopping malls, cultural attractions and other shopping facilities in the surrounding towns of Estepona and Marbella are only a short drive away.
Equipment at a glance
Air conditioning
Central heating
Building Services
Satellite-TV
Marble bathrooms
Small buildings
Exklusive Lagoon
Lifts
Underground car park
Storage rooms
The next hotspots
AIRPORT:
HIGHWAY:
BEACH:
SUPERMARKET:
CITY CENTER:
Malaga 91 km
400 m
4,2 km
7,7 km
9,5 km
RESTAURANTS:
GAS STATION:
HOSPITAL:
BUS STOP:
SKI RESORT:
400 m
4,3 km
9,8 km
10,2
254 km