Telescope - Types, Advantages, Disadvantages of Telescopes
Home | | Science 10th Std | Telescope
Prev Page
Next Page
Types, Advantages, Disadvantages of Telescopes - Telescope | 10th Science : Chapter 2 : Optics
Chapter: 10th Science : Chapter 2 : Optics
Telescope
Telescope is an optical instrument to see the distant objects. The first telescope was invented by Johann Lippershey in 1608. Galileo made a telescope to observe distant stars.
TELESCOPE
Have you seen the recent
lunar eclipse? With our naked eye we can’t visualize the phenomena distinctly.
Then, how can we see the distant object in clearer manner? It is possible with
telescope.
Telescope is an optical
instrument to see the distant objects. The first telescope was invented by
Johann Lippershey in 1608. Galileo made a telescope to observe distant stars.
He got the idea, from a spectacle maker who one day observed that the distant
weather cock appeared magnified through his lens system fitted in his shop.
Galileo observed the satellites of Jupiter and the rings of Saturn through his
telescope. Kepler invented Telescope in which was fundamentally similar to the
astronomical telescope.
Types of Telescope
According to optical
property, it
is classified into two groups:
i) refracting telescope
ii) reflecting telescope
In refracting
telescope lenses are used. Galilean telescope, Keplerian telescope,
Achromatic refractors, are some refracting telescopes.
In reflecting
telescope parabolic mirrors are used Gregorian, Newtonian, Cassegrain
telescope are some Reflecting telescopes
According to the things
which are observed, Astronomical Telescope and Terrestrial Telescopes are the two major types of telescope.
Astronomical Telescope
An astronomical
telescope is used to view heavenly bodies like stars, planets galaxies and
satellites.
Terrestrial Telescopes
The image in an
astronomical telescope is inverted. So, it is not suitable for viewing objects
on the surface of the Earth. Therefore, a terrestrial telescope is used. It
provides an erect image. The major difference between astronomical and
terrestrial telescope is erecting the final image with respect to the object.
Advantages of Telescopes
Elaborate view of the
Galaxies, Planets, stars and other heavenly bodies is possible.
· Camera can be attached for taking photograph for the celestial
objects.
· Telescope can be viewed even with the low intensity of light.
Disadvantages
· Frequent maintenances needed.
· It is not easily portable one.
Prev Page
Next Page
Tags : Types, Advantages, Disadvantages of Telescopes , 10th Science : Chapter 2 : Optics
Study Material, Lecturing Notes, Assignment, Reference, Wiki description explanation, brief detail
10th Science : Chapter 2 : Optics : Telescope | Types, Advantages, Disadvantages of Telescopes
Prev Page
Next Page