12 Fun Facts About Telescopes | Learn Astronomy HQ
12 Fun Facts About Telescopes
Previous
Next
List
Astronomy is a fun and interesting hobby to
																																				have. If telescopes are one of your favourite topics, this article is made for
																																				you. Telescopes are pretty interesting. Also, these amazing instruments that
																																				allow us to study the stars have a few secrets of their own.
In this article, we are going to show you
																																				fun facts about telescopes that you might not have known. If you want to do
																																				more research on telescopes check out TelescopeReviewer.com. This
																																				website has amazing in-depth reviews of different telescopes. Make sure to take
																																				a look before you decide to buy your next telescope.
1. The Real Inventor
Back in 1608, Hans Lippershey allegedly
																																				invented the telescope. At least, this is what the conventional wisdom says. On
																																				the other hand, several legends mentioned that a bunch of kids discovered the
																																				telescope when they were playing with lenses in a spectacle-maker’s store.
																																				Which one do you think is true?
2. Early Purposes of the Telescope
Apparently, gazing at the stars or simply
																																				looking at birds were not the only purposes for the telescope. Back in the day,
																																				early telescopes were sold for another purpose. Merchants used them to see
																																				trade ships that approached in order to beat the competitors.
3. The Biggest Telescope
For more than 7 decades, the largest
																																				telescope was Leviathan of Parsonstown, made in Ireland. Unfortunately, due to
																																				the wet weather, the 40-ton telescope was kept shut down. This telescope was
																																				built by the Earl of Rosse in 1845.
4. The Effects of Technology
Nowadays, anything involves a bit of
																																				technology. Most professional astronomers use Internet-based telescopes to
																																				observe different things on the sky. These telescopes are operated remotely
																																				with computers.
5. The Hubble Space Telescope
The Hubble Space Telescope was launched in
																																				1990, more than 7 years late. One of the reasons for which the telescope was
																																				launched later than predicted was the fact that its light-collecting mirror
																																				needed to be polished for a year to an accuracy of no more than 10 nanometers.
Unfortunately, the people who were supposed
																																				to polish the mirror did not do a great job. They polished it off by 2,200
																																				nanometers. Once the problem was fixed in 1993 with corrective lenses, the
																																				Hubble Telescope became the source of almost 25% of astronomy research papers.
6. Too Close to the Sun
The first one who turned the telescope
																																				skyward was Galileo. He is the one who led to the discovery of Jupiter’s
																																				satellites and the craters on the moon. Unfortunately, he also looked directly
																																				at the Sun with the telescope. It is believed that his blindness was caused by this
																																				event.
7. Stars and Hollywood Stars
Apparently, these two have something in
																																				common. Jack Black’s parents were engineers and his mother worked to design the
																																				Hubble Space Telescope.
8. To the Moon and Back
China is the first country to have a
																																				robotic telescope on the Moon. Since 2013, the telescope is working and experts
																																				mentioned that it could work for up to 30 years.
9. The Perfect gift
Wernher Von Braun might have gotten his
																																				passion for astronomy because of his mother. Instead of giving him a
																																				traditional gift for his Lutheran confirmation, Wernher’s mother gave him his
																																				first telescope.
10. Competition
Since NASA launched the Hubble Space
																																				Telescope, scientists from other countries are trying to beat the competition.
																																				Several scientists from Europe are trying to build a telescope that can produce
																																				images 15 times sharper than Hubble. The telescope is expected to be done in
																																				2024.
11. Plans
NASA is not giving up the competition
																																				either. They are planning to build a Radio Telescope on the Moon. They expect
																																				to finish it by 2030.
12. Too much Data
A new radio telescope is being built in South
																																				Africa and Australia. It is expected to generate a lot of data. It is going to
																																				exceed global internet traffic, which is not a small thing. This radio
																																				telescope is going to generate an exabyte of raw data per day. Experts
																																				mentioned that the data can be compressed to about 10 petabytes per day.
These are just a few interesting things
																																				about telescopes, besides the well-known facts. Astronomy and anything related
																																				to it can be very interesting if you give it a try. Also, despite the fact that
																																				it is believed that telescopes are very expensive, there are several
																																				budget-friendly devices.
Don’t be afraid to try them out, even if
																																				you are a beginner. Nowadays you can find a lot of models designed for
																																				beginners. If you don’t like gazing at the stars, you can use the telescope for
																																				searching birds and other animals.
Image source: Flickr
Author Bio:
Lauren
																																				Ray John is a Senior Editor at TelescopeReviewer.com. She writes
																																				reviews for different types of telescopes. Lauren has always loved the
																																				astronomy field, so she decided to take life into her hands and follow the
																																				career she has always wanted.
Tweet