Calanova Grand Golf Golf apartments Best Deal Costa del Sol
MORE INFO
Calanova Grand Golf - SOLD OUT
High quality golf apartments at a competitive price. One-, two- and three-room apartments with a large terrace, access to the gardens and a swimming pool. Living space from 63m².
Near the beach & sea
With spacious terrace with a beautiful view. In a quiet location surrounded by nature and yet less than 10 minutes from the best beaches of the Costa del Sol.
Mijas Golf
Calanova Grand Golf is located directly on the golf course. There are more golf courses in the immediate vicinity of the complex. The ideal place for golf lovers.
Value for your money!
Together with our bank partner we can now offer Calanova Grand Golf from € 91,200. Look and compare - one of the last real bank offers - priced to sell quickly.
Fastest selling bank complex Costa del Sol & #8211; Sale of 1-, 2- and 3-bedroom homes in Mijas, Málaga. A perfect holiday destination and also ideal to have a holiday home. Located in the Calanova Grand Golf complex, with residential pool and beautifully landscaped gardens. Next to the golf club and only 10 minutes from the beach. Built in 2007, but uninhabited due to the crisis. The complex is being renovated in phases and will be delivered as new. The first phases have since been sold out.
SOLD OUT
Place & #8211; without any obligation & #8211; on the waiting list. We will contact you as soon as the new offer becomes available.
VIEW ALL PHOTOS
In the area
Come and discover Calanova Grand Golf - new construction that has never been inhabited by the crisis. 10 minutes walk to the beach that the Costa del Sol is so famous for. Located in a privileged location between nature and on the golf course.
Miramar shopping mall
With 160 stores, including the most famous fashion brands such as Primark, and a large hypermarket called Carrefour, Miramar has a wide range of leisure activities, such as 12 Cinesur cinema screens with the latest movie releases, cafes and restaurants for all tastes.
Mijas Golf
In recent decades, Mijas Golf has become one of the most popular golf complexes in Europe, known for the excellent condition of their golf courses and the friendly atmosphere and excellent service to customers.
Day trip in the Bioparc
The entire park is designed to involve those who walk through it in the recreation of the habitat where the animals come from. No cages or fences are used in the zoo. It looks like the visitor physically ends up in a nature documentary.
Visit the city of Fuengirola
One of the main attractions of Fuengirola is of course the beautiful seven-kilometer-long sandy beaches, which extend from Fuengirola Castle to the west and from Torreblanca to the east.