Arlette Saenz Wikipedia, Bio, Birthday, Age, CNN, Net Worth, Salary Height
Arlette Saenz Wikipedia, Bio, Birthday, Age, CNN, Net Worth, Salary, Parents
Admin 0
Contents hide
1 Arlette Saenz Wikipedia
2 Quick Facts About Arlette Saenz
3 Arlette Saenz Birthday
4 Arlette Saenz Height
4.1 Arlette Saenz Education
5 Arlette Saenz Salary
6 Arlette Saenz’s Net Worth
7 Arlette Saenz’s Parents
8 Arlette Saenz CNN | Career
9 Frequently Asked Questions
9.1 Who is Arlette Saenz?
9.2 When is Arlette Saenz’s birthday?
9.3 Where does Arlette Saenz live?
10 Is Arlette Saenz Alive?
11 How much does Arlette Saenz gets paid annually?
12 Profiles
Arlette Saenz Wikipedia
Arlette Saenz is an American journalist working as a political reporter for CNN based in Washington, D.C. Saenz joined CNN in 2018 from ABC News where she reported on the Trump and Obama administrations, Capitol Hill, and national politics.
Quick Facts About Arlette Saenz
Age:
Under review
Date of Birth:
22, April
Horoscope:
Taurus
Birth Place:
Brownsville, Texas, US
Education:
University of Notre Dame
Relationship:
Single
Profession:
Political Reporter
Height:
Under review
Net Worth:
To be updated
Ethnicity:
Hispanic
Nationality:
American
Weight:
Under review
Hair Color:
Brown
Eye Color:
Brown
Arlette Saenz Birthday
Saenz is a political reporter for CNN based in Washington, D.C. She was born and raised in Brownsville, Texas on April 22, and her birth sign is Taurus. Sources indicate that the journalist is in her 30’s.
Arlette Saenz Height
The CNN reporter is of average height and weight, her exact measurements are yet to be released and this section will be updated as soon as we have more information.
Arlette Saenz Education
She graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 2007 with a Bachelor’s degree in American studies and a minor in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service.
Arlette Saenz Salary
Saenz receives a salary of approximately $60,000 annually from her work as a political reporter for CNN based in Washington, D.C.
Arlette Saenz’s Net Worth
There is currently limited information on Arlette’s net worth, however, this section is under review and will soon be updated.
Arlette Saenz’s Parents
Saenz likes to keep her personal life private and little is known about her parents, siblings, or other relatives. This section will be updated as soon as her details appear online.
Arlette Saenz CNN | Career
Arlette launched her career in 2005 as an Understudy at Nightline. In 2006, she was an Understudy at WOAI-TV. From 2006 to 2007, she served as an assistant at the University of Notre Dame Office of News and Information.
Saenz joined ABC News in Admirable 2007. She worked as a senior work area right hand. In September 2010, she began working as an advanced writer, covering the U.S. Senate and legislative issues as a White House reporter and maker.
She worked as an addition amid the 2012 United States presidential race, covering the campaigns of Bad habit President Joe Biden, Texas Governor Rick Perry, previous Senator Rick Santorum, House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Marco Rubio, and Bob McDonnell.
Arlette joined CNN as a political columnist in September 2018.
Frequently Asked Questions
Who is Arlette Saenz?
Saenz is an American journalist working as a political reporter for CNN based in Washington, D.C. Saenz joined CNN in 2018 from ABC News where she reported on the Trump and Obama administrations, Capitol Hill, and national politics.
When is Arlette Saenz’s birthday?
Saenz is a political reporter for CNN based in Washington, D.C. She was born and raised in Brownsville, Texas on April 22 and her birth sign is Taurus.
Where does Arlette Saenz live?
Saenz resides in Washington DC from where she works as a CNN political reporter.
Is Arlette Saenz  Alive?
CNN’s political reporter Saenz is alive and well and no reports of illness have been disclosed.
How much does Arlette Saenz gets paid annually?
Saenz receives a salary of approximately $60,000 annually from her work as a political reporter for CNN based in Washington, D.C.
Profiles
Instagram
Twitter