Refracting Telescopes - an overview | ScienceDirect Topics
Download as PDF
About this page
LIGHT
JERRY B. MARION, in Physics in the Modern World (Second Edition), 1981
Telescopes
Whereas a microscope serves to produce an enlarged virtual image of small objects placed close to the objective lens, a telescope serves to magnify the angular separation of distant objects or to increase the amount of light received by the eye from a distant point of light. One of the primary functions of a telescope is to collect the light from a weak source and to concentrate the bundle of rays so that the eye (or a photographic film) can register an image of the object. This is particularly true in observing faint stars, the light from which is made extremely weak because of their great distances.
The original inventor of the telescope is unknown, but a crude instrument similar to a telescope was described in the latter part of the 16th century. The telescope was reinvented in Holland in 1608, and during the early part of the following year a report of the instrument reached Galileo in Italy. Because the report contained no information as to the details of construction, Galileo drew upon his knowledge of refraction and lenses to design and construct his own version. Galileo's first telescope, shown schematically in Fig. 15-23, had a magnifying power of 3. Ultimately he became sufficiently accomplished at grinding lenses that he was able to increase the magnification to more than 30.
Sign in to download full-size image
FIGURE 15-23. Diagram of an early Galilean astronomical telescope. The incident parallel rays from a star are brought toward a focus by the convex objective lens, but before they converge to a point, the rays are diverged into a parallel beam by a concave lens. The net effect is to increase the amount of light received by the eye from the star. The star is made to appear brighter and therefore nearer.
Replica of the reflecting telescope constructed by Newton in 1667 and demonstrated before the Royal Society. Focusing is accomplished by slight adjustments of the main mirror with the thumb screw in the base.
Modern telescopes of this general type are constructed differently in that diverging lenses are not used. A simple design is shown in Fig. 15-24, where two converging lenses are used. Notice that the image is inverted, that is, the tip of the image points in the direction opposite to that of the object. An erect image is essential for observing objects on the Earth, but it is really not necessary for astronomical observations because there is no meaning to “up” or “down” for a star. In order to produce an erect image, a third lens or a prism must be added. (Ordinary binoculars use prisms to produce an erect image.)
Sign in to download full-size image
FIGURE 15-24. Schematic diagram of a two-lens telescope that produces an inverted image. Simple telescopes of this general design are used for viewing astronomical objects. For viewing Earth objects, an additional lens or a prism must be used to produce an erect image.
Telescopes that make use of the refractive property of lenses are called refracting telescopes or refractors. If a refractor is to have a large light-gathering power (a necessity for astronomical observations), the lenses must be quite large. The instrument at the Yerkes Observatory (see the photograph below) has an objective lens with a diameter of 1 m. Lenses of such size are difficult to manufacture, have great weight, and are subject to cracking due to temperature changes. For these reasons, large-diameter refractors are not practical instruments, and very few are still in use for astronomical research.
Sign in to download full-size image
Replica of the reflecting telescope constructed by Newton in 1667 and demonstrated before the Royal Society. Focusing is accomplished by slight adjustments of the main mirror with the thumb screw in the base.
Sign in to download full-size image
The 1-m refracting telescope at the Yerkes Observatory of the University of Chicago. This is one of the few refracting telescopes still in use for research purposes.
In 1667 Isaac Newton devised a new kind of telescope that depends upon the reflective properties of a curved surface. A diagram of the Newtonian reflecting telescope (or reflector) is shown in Fig. 15-25. Parallel light rays from a distant source are incident on the mirror at the base of the instrument. Because the mirror surface is curved, the rays are converged toward a focus. Before the focal point is reached, however, the rays are intercepted by a small flat mirror that diverts the converging rays to an eyepiece external to the telescope. (The flat mirror is sufficiently small that it does not appreciably reduce the amount of light reaching the main mirror.)
Sign in to download full-size image
FIGURE 15-25. A Newtonian reflecting telescope. In order that the rays be brought to a proper focus in a reflecting telescope, the main mirror must be in the shape of a paraboloid, a surface generated by rotating a parabola around its axis. A spherical surface is adequate if the mirror is relatively small and is not intended for the most precise work.
Almost all telescopes now used in astronomical observing programs are reflecting telescopes. Several instruments with mirror diameters greater than 2 m are in service. The largest American reflector is the 5-m telescope on Mount Palomar. An even larger instrument (a 6-m giant) is now being used by Soviet astronomers in the mountains of the Caucasus. All of these telescopes are equipped for photographic work and a number of different schemes, in addition to the Newtonian mirror deflector, are utilized for directing the focused beam to various positions for visual or photographic observations.
Sign in to download full-size image
Cut-away drawing of the 5-m Mount Palomar telescope. Notice that the Newtonian viewing system is not used; instead, the deflecting mirror directs the beam toward the base of the telescope and it emerges through a central hole in the main mirror.
The Soviet 6-m telescope will probably remain the largest single-mirror instrument ever constructed. An economical alternative to the large, single-mirror telescope has recently been developed. In this scheme, a number of small mirrors are distributed over a large area, and all of the mirrors direct light to a central focus. The mirrors are computer controlled to compensate for light fluctuations due to atmospheric disturbances. The result is that such an array of small mirrors is as effective in gathering light as a very large single mirror.
Another method being used to overcome the difficulties associated with the passage of light through the atmosphere is to mount a telescope on an orbiting artificial satellite. A 3-m instrument on a space platform is capable of recording the light from galaxies that are 100 times fainter than those observable with the best ground-based telescopes.
View chapter Purchase book
PHYSICAL OPTICS: DIFFRACTION
George B. Arfken, ... Joseph Priest, in International Edition University Physics, 1984
41.3 Diffraction and Angular Resolution
The large central peak of the single-slit pattern is typical of many diffraction patterns. Furthermore, the relation θ 1 = λ/ D for the single slit illustrates a very general feature of diffraction:
When waves of wavelength λ encounter an obstruction or aperture whose characteristic dimension D is large by comparison to λ, most of the diffracted intensity is channeled into a narrow range of angle given by
(41.21) 2 θ ≃ 2 λ D
In other words, 2λ/D measures the angular diameter of the diffraction pattern. We can infer the plausibility of the relation 2θ ≃ 2λ/ D from Figure 41.13. The edge of the central peak of intensity is marked by the angle θ at which complete destructive interference occurs. The object or aperture is divided into halves. In order for point P to be a position of complete destructive interference, waves reaching P from corresponding positions [( A, A′ ), (B, B′ ), …] in the top and bottom halves must be one-half wavelength out of step. This condition is satisfied provided the distances from P to the top and bottom edges differ by one wavelength. As Figure 41.13 indicates, the smallest angle θ for which the distances differ by λ is approximately λ/D. The exact value of θ for which complete destructive interference occurs depends on the shape of the object or aperture. For a slit of width D, we have seen that the angle is given by sin θ = λ/D. For a circular aperture of diameter D, analysis shows that the angle is given by sin θ = 1.22λ/ D. The key points are as follows: (1) Destructive interference causes the intensity to fall to zero at an angle given approximately by λ/ D; and (2) most of the scattered intensity is channeled into the range of angle −λ/ D ≲ θ ≲ +λ/ D.
Sign in to download full-size image
Figure 41.13. For θ ≃ λ/ D, waves reaching P from corresponding segments (A, A′ ), (B, B′ ), … will be ½λ out of step and will interfere destructively. Waves reaching P′ also interfere destructively. The angular separation of P and P′ is given by 2θ ≃ 2(λ/ D ), and defines the angular diameter of the diffraction pattern.
An important consequence of diffraction is that the image of a point source is not a point. Instead, it is a diffraction pattern. For example, when light from a star passes through the lens of a refracting telescope it is diffracted. The lens constitutes a circular aperture. Figure 41.14 shows the targetlike diffraction pattern for a circular aperture. A circular lens produces the same type of pattern. The focusing action of the lens cannot compensate for the scattering and interference that produce the diffraction pattern. The intensity is greatest over the central region of the pattern, called the Airy disk.* The angular radius (θ) of the Airy disk is given by sin θ = 1.22λ/ D, where λ is the wavelength and D is the diameter of the lens. The image formed at the focal point of the lens consists of the relatively bright Airy disk surrounded by much fainter concentric rings (Figure 41.15 ). Unless special care is taken, the image will appear as a circular spot. That is, only the Airy disk will be visible. Figure 41.15 shows how to determine the size of the image. For a lens with a focal length f, the linear diameter of the Airy disk is (with sin θ ≃ θ)
Sign in to download full-size image
Figure 41.14. The diffraction pattern of a circular aperture. The circular area in the center is called the Airy disk, and marks the region of maximum intensity.
Sign in to download full-size image
Figure 41.15. The image of a point source of monochromatic light, formed by a lens of diameter D, is a diffraction pattern The intensity pattern is a maximum at the center of the Airy disk.
(41.22) W=f .2 θ=2.44(f λ D)
Example 2
Stellar Image Size
A telescope lens 14 cm in diameter has a focal length of 60 cm. The telescope is equipped with a filter that transmits over a narrow range of wavelengths centered at 530 nm. The size of a stellar image at 530 nm equals the Airy disk diameter. From Eq. 41.22 the image size is
W=2.44(60 14)530 nm=5600nm
This image size is about ten times the wavelength of the light.
We can see the limitations imposed on image-forming systems by diffraction if we consider the images formed by two point sources. Figures 41.16a, b, c show three situations in which light of wavelength λ from two point sources of equal intensities passes through a lens of diameter D. The waves from each source are spread out into diffraction patterns with an angular radius of approximately λ/ D. The angle between the two sources (Φ) as viewed from the lens is called their angular separation. In Figure 41.16a the angular separation of the two sources is much greater than λ/ D and the two diffraction patterns do not overlap. The two images are clearly separated, and we say that the two objects are resolved. In Figure 41.16b the angular separation of the sources is smaller than λ/ D and the two diffraction patterns overlap significantly. It is not possible to tell whether there are two sources or only one.
Sign in to download full-size image
Figure 41.16. The diffraction limit on angular resolution. (a) Angular separation of objects (ϕ) much larger than Δ/ D; objects well resolved. (b) Angular separation of objects much smaller than λ/ D; objects not resolved (their diffraction patterns overlap). (c) Angular separation of objects comparable to λ/ D; objects “just” resolved
In this case, we say that the objects are not resolved. Figure 41.16c shows the “borderline” situation where the angular separation is approximately equal to λ/ D. The two diffraction patterns overlap slightly. It is now barely possible to infer that there are two sources, and we say that the objects are just resolved.
The angular resolution of an image-forming system is the smallest angular separation it can distinguish (resolve) Rayleigh's criterion is widely used to establish the angular resolution of a circular lens. Rayleigh observed that when the angular separation (ϕ) of the two sources is such that
(41.23) sin ϕ=1.22(λ D)
the central intensity peak of one source falls on the first intensity zero of the other source. The result is a slight “dimple” in the total intensity pattern, from which we can infer the presence of two sources. Figures 41.17, 41.17b, c show the intensity patterns for two sources separated by angles for which sin ϕ = 0.61 (λ/D), 1.22(λ/D), and 2.44(λ/D).
Sign in to download full-size image
Figure 41.17. Rayleigh's criterion. Overlapping intensity patterns for two objects whose angular separations are given by (a) sin ϕ = 0.61 (λ/D); (b) sin ϕ = 1.22(λ/ D ); (c) sin ϕ = 2.44(λ/ D ). Dotted lines indicate the intensity patterns for each of the two objects. Solid line is the sum of the two intensities, which is the total (observed) intensity. The slight dimple in the total intensity for (b) marks the limit of resolution according to Rayleigh's criterion.
Upon application of Rayleigh's criterion, the angular resolution of a lens of diameter D collecting waves of wavelength λ is given by
(41.24) angular resolution=1.22(λ D)
We have assumed λ/ D ≪ 1 so that sin (1.22λ/ D) ≃ 1.22λ/ D.
The smaller the angular resolution, the better the image resolution of an instrument. The world's largest radio telescope, at Arecibo, Puerto Rico, has a diameter of 305 m. At a wavelength of λ = 21 cm the angular resolution is 8.4 × 10 −4 rad. By comparison, the angular resolution of an amateur astronomer's 6-in. (lens diameter) telescope viewing green light (λ = 500 nm) is 4 × 10 −6 rad. Contrary to what we might expect, the amateur's telecope is superior with respect to angular resolution. However, the Arecibo telescope affords several advantages. It is able to detect objects far beyond the range of the 6-in. telescope and can scan a wide range of radio wavelengths far beyond the visible range.
The human eye is another optical system that is subject to diffraction effects. Let's determine the diffraction limit for the angular resolution of the human eye.
Example 3
Angular Resolution of the Human Eye
The diameter of the pupil of a human eye varies from 2 mm in bright light to 5 mm in the dark. For a wavelength of 600 nm (yellow light) the angular resolution for the light-adapted eye is
1.22(λ D)=1.22(6 × 10 − 7 m 2 × 10 − 3 m)=4 × 10 − 4 rad
which is approximately 1 minute of arc (1/60 of 1 degree).
The millimeter markings on a meter rod subtend an angle of 4 × 10 −4 rad at a distance of approximately 4 m. Therefore, if you view a meter rod more than 4 m away, you won't be able to resolve the individual millimeter marks. Images of the individual millimeter marks will overlap because of diffraction and you will probably see only a gray band Try it. The angular resolution is also limited by the spacing of the light-sensitive cells on the retina. Most people are unable to resolve the millimeter marks at distances greater than 3 m.
Other factors also affect the ability of an image- forming system to resolve objects. For example, turbulence causes fluctuations in the index of refraction of the earth's atmosphere. Starlight traveling through the atmosphere is refracted many times in an irregular, fluctuating fashion. We see this refraction as the “twinkle” of starlight. The direction of a star appears to us to change very slightly from one moment to the next. For the astronomer, twinkling is another factor that limits the angular resolution of a telescope. Twinkling smears images, and if two objects are close enough, their smeared images may overlap and thereby limit resolution.
It should be emphasized that the diffraction limitations on angular resolution are not restricted to lenses. Any device that “collects” waves and senses the direction of their origin is subject to the limits imposed by diffraction. Thus, the angular resolution of reflecting telescopes and that of radio telescopes are also subject to diffraction limitations.
The angular resolution of a single slit, or a mirror, or a radio telescope dish is limited by the diameter, D. The angular resolution can be improved by using a series of slits, or mirrors, or dishes. Any arrangement of elements that is equivalent to an array of parallel slits is called a diffraction grating. In the next section we will determine the intensity pattern for a diffraction grating having N slits. We will then show how a large value of N makes the grating a precision instrument for measuring wavelengths, and greatly improves its angular resolution compared with the single slit.
Questions
3.
Sound waves with a wavelength of 1 m travel through a window 2 m high and 1 m wide. Is the diffraction pattern of the sound broader (diffracted through larger angles) in the vertical or the horizontal direction?
4.
A whisper is composed of higher-frequency sound waves than ordinary conversational speech. Why is it more difficult to hear someone facing away from you when he whispers than it is to hear him when he talks in a normal tone, even though the intensity levels are the same in both cases?
View chapter Purchase book
Introduction
DANIEL J. SCHROEDER, in Astronomical Optics (Second Edition), 2000
1.1 A BIT OF HISTORY
Early in the 1900s the desire for larger light gathering power led to the design and construction of the 100-in Hooker telescope located on Mount Wilson in California. This reflecting telescope and its smaller predecessors were built following the recognition that refracting telescopes, such as the 36-in one at Lick Observatory in California and the 40-in one at Yerkes Observatory, in Wisconsin, had reached a practical limit in size. With the 100-in telescope, it was possible to start systematic observations of nearby galaxies and start to attack the problem of the structure of the universe.
Although the 100-in telescope was a giant step forward for observational astronomy, it was recognized by Hale that still larger telescopes were necessary for observations of remote galaxies. Due largely to his efforts, work began on the design and construction of a 200-in (5-m) telescope in the late 1920s. The Hale telescope was put into operation in the late 1940s and remained the world's largest until a 6-m telescope was built in Russia in the mid-1970s.
The need for more large telescopes became acute in the 1960s as the boundaries of observational astronomy were pushed outward. Plans made during this decade and the following one resulted in the construction of a number of optical telescopes in the 4-m class during the 1970s and 1980s in both hemispheres. These telescopes, equipped with efficient detectors, fueled an explosive growth in observational astronomy.
Large reflectors are well-suited for observations of small parts of the sky, typically a fraction of a degree in diameter, but they are not suitable for surveys of the entire sky. A type of telescope suited for survey work was first devised by Schmidt in the early 1930s. The first large Schmidt telescope was a 1.2-m instrument covering a field about 6° across, and put into operation on Palomar Mountain in the early 1950s. Several telescopes of this type and size have since been built in both hemispheres. The principle of the Schmidt telescope has also been adapted to cameras used in many spectrometers.
While construction of telescopes was underway during the 1970s and 1980s, astronomers were already planning for the next generation of large reflectors. In the quest for still greater light-gathering power, attention turned to the design of arrays of telescopes and segmented mirrors, and to new techniques for casting and figuring single mirrors with diameters in the 8-m range. The fruits of these labors became apparent in the late 1990s with the coming online of a significant number of telescopes in the 8- to 10-m class.
The array concept was first implemented with the completion of the Multiple-Mirror Telescope (MMT) on Mount Hopkins, Arizona, a telescope with six 1.8-m telescopes mounted in a common frame and an aperture equivalent to that of a single 4.5-m telescope. Beams of the separate telescopes were directed to a common focal plane and either combined in a single image or placed side-by-side on the slit of a spectrometer. Although the MMT concept proved workable, advances in mirror technology prompted the replacement of the separate mirrors with a single 6.5-m mirror in the same telescope structure and building.
The segmented mirror approach was the choice for the Keck Ten-Meter Telescope (TMT), with 36 hexagonal segments the equivalent of a single filled aperture. This approach requires active control of the positions of the segments to maintain mirror shape and image quality. Even before the first TMT had been pointed to its first star, its twin was under construction on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, and together these two telescopes are obtaining dramatic observational results. Another segmented mirror telescope is the Hobby-Eberly Telescope designed primarily for spectroscopy.
Although it seemed in the 1980s that multiple and segmented mirrors were the wave of the future, new techniques for making large, “fast” primary mirrors and controlling their optical figure in a telescope led to the design and construction of several 8-m telescopes. Among these are the Very Large Telescopes (VLT) of the European Southern Observatory, the Gemini telescopes, Subaru, and Large Binocular Telescope (LBT). Used singly or as components of an interferometric array (for the VLT and LBT), observations are possible that could only be dreamed of in the 1970s.
Instrumentation used on large telescopes has also shown dramatic changes since the time of the earliest reflectors. Noting first the development in spectrometers, small prism instruments were replaced by larger grating instruments at both Cassegrain and coude focus positions to meet the demands for higher spectral resolution. In recent years many of these high resolution coude instruments have, in turn, been replaced by echelle spectrometers at the Cassegrain focus. On the largest telescopes, such as the TMT and VLT, most large instrumentation is at the Nasmyth focus position on a platform that rotates with the telescope. Nearly all spectrographic instruments and imaging cameras now use solid-state electronic detectors of high quantum efficiency that, coupled with these telescopes, make possible observations of still fainter celestial objects.
Although developments of ground-based optical telescopes and instruments during the last three decades of the 20th century have been dramatic, the same can also be said of Earth-orbiting telescopes in space. Since the first Orbiting Astronomical Observatory in the late 1960s, with its telescopes of 0.4-m and smaller, the size and complexity of orbiting telescopes have increased markedly. The 2.4-m Hubble Space Telescope (HST), once its problem of spherical aberration was fixed, has made observations not possible with ground-based telescopes. Although its light gathering power is significantly smaller than that of many ground-based telescopes, its unique capability of observing sources in spectral regions absorbed by our atmosphere and of imaging to the diffraction limit are leading the revolution in astronomy.
Because of the high cost of a telescope in space, there has been significant effort to improve the quality of images of ground-based telescopes. These efforts include controlling the thermal conditions within telescope enclosures and incorporating active and adaptive optics systems into telescopes. With these techniques it becomes possible to obtain images of near-diffraction-limited quality, at least over small fields and for brighter objects.
This brief excursion into the development of telescopes and instruments up to the present and into the near future is by no means complete. It is intended only to illustrate the range of tools now available to the observational astronomer.
View chapter Purchase book
Ray Optics
Avijit Lahiri, in Basic Optics, 2016
3.8.3.2 The telescope objective
The objective is the most important optical component of the telescope (as it is for the microscope). To gather as much light as possible from a distant and faint object, the objective has to have a large aperture, the latter being necessary for the telescope to have high resolving power (ie, the ability to form distinct images of two pointlike objects with a small angular separation) as well. In the case of a refracting telescope, this calls for an objective lens of large diameter, the design and mounting of which poses challenging problems. A large transparent lens, free of internal inhomogeneities, is itself difficult to fabricate. Added to this, the lens is to be appropriately shaped so as to make it free of the aberrations, especially of chromatic aberration, spherical aberration, and coma (the off-axis Seidel aberrations, ie, astigmatism, curvature, and distortion are of relatively lesser importance for a telescope objective). Finally, the mounting of a large lens constitutes another formidable problem since the lens can be supported only at its rim.
While large refracting telescopes are still in use, the use of concave reflectors in telescope objectives takes care of a number of design problems. First of all, there is no chromatic aberration in reflection. What is more, the mechanical problem of mounting the telescope is less formidable since a reflector can be supported at its rim as well as at its back surface. Finally, spherical aberration and coma can be eliminated more easily in a reflector. For instance, if a parabolic reflector is used, then these aberrations are greatly reduced, with the image being produced in a small neighborhood of the focus of the parabola.
However, the fabrication of a high-quality paraboloidal reflector is also a problem of considerable magnitude, added to which there arises the problem of a long telescope tube sealed from spurious light while, at the same time, receiving all the light from the reflector.
The Cassegrain system constitutes one solution to these problems, where a spherical mirror (termed the ‘primary’ mirror) is used, which is much easier to shape than a paraboloidal one, and which can be made much smaller as well without compromising with the requirement of a large focal length, by way of the use of a secondary mirror as part of the objective assembly.
Fig. 3.38 depicts schematically the optical system of a catadioptric telescope objective, where a spherical primary mirror is used along with a spherical secondary mirror and a Schmidt corrector plate. The catadioptric objective uses both reflective and refractive components, of which the primary and secondary mirrors constitute the reflective elements in the Schmidt-Cassegrain system shown in Fig. 3.38, while the Schmidt corrector plate is the refractive element. The corrector plate is thicker at the peripheral and central zones and is comparatively thin in the intermediate zone, and has its flat face turned toward the concave primary mirror. Light enters through the corrector plate and is reflected by the primary mirror onto the convex secondary mirror, which is spherical and much smaller. The rays are then reflected onto an inclined mirror, to be finally collected by the eyepiece, these elements not being shown in Fig. 3.38.
Sign in to download full-size image
Fig. 3.38. The Schmidt-Cassegrain catadioptric telescope objective. Parallel rays from the distant object are admitted through the Schmidt corrector plate C and are passed on to the concave spherical mirror P (the primary mirror). The rays reflected from P converge toward the convex secondary mirror S. On being reflected from S, the rays proceed toward the eyepiece assembly. The use of reflecting components keeps chromatic aberration at a minimum. Spherical aberration is reduced by the use of the specially shaped corrector plate C, which is a refracting component.
Source: Source: (Based on a figure in Telescope Optics Tutorial at http://www.astronomyasylum.com/telescopeopticstutorial.html .)
The corrector plate compensates for the spherical aberration introduced by the primary and secondary mirrors (the latter two compensate each other to some extent), and the objective assembly is enclosed in a telescope tube of conveniently short length since the rays traverse the tube three times before entering the eyepiece assembly. However, the Schmidt-Cassegrain system suffers from the presence of coma and astigmatism to a nonnegligible extent.
Another variant of the catadioptric objective is the Maksutov-Cassegrain system, where the corrector plate has a meniscus shape, being much simpler to design and fabricate than the Schmidt corrector. The convex side of the meniscus faces toward the primary mirror, and the secondary mirror can be a silver spot deposited on this convex side, this being an added advantage of the Maksutov assembly.
View chapter Purchase book
Preliminaries: Definitions and Paraxial Optics
DANIEL J. SCHROEDER, in Astronomical Optics (Second Edition), 2000
2.6 STOPS AND PUPILS
We now turn our attention to the important topic of stops and pupils. Our discussion, although brief, will cover the essential points. For a more complete discussion the reader should consult any of the intermediate-level texts listed in the bibliography at the end of the chapter.
2.6.a DEFINITIONS AND BASICS
The aperture stop is an element of an optical system that determines the amount of light reaching the image. This stop is often the boundary of a lens or mirror, although it may be a separate diaphragm. In addition to controlling the amount of light entering the system, it also is one of the determining factors in the sizes of system aberrations. For most telescopes the primary mirror serves as the aperture stop, although in many infrared telescopes the secondary mirror is the aperture stop.
The field stop is an element that determines the angular size of the object field that is imaged by the system. In most systems the boundary of the field stop is the edge of the detector, although it may also be a separate diaphragm in an image plane ahead of the detector.
In a general optical system the image of the aperture stop formed by that part of the system preceding it in the optical train is called the entrance pupil. For two-mirror telescopes in which the primary mirror is the aperture stop, as well as for prime focus (single mirror) and refracting telescopes, no imaging elements precede the aperture stop. In this case the entrance pupil coincides with the aperture stop. For infrared telescopes the aperture stop (secondary mirror) is preceded by the primary mirror. In this case the entrance pupil is the same diameter as the primary mirror, an exercise left for the reader.
The image of the aperture stop formed by that part of the system following it is called the exit pupil. The significance of the exit pupil is that rays from the boundary of the aperture stop approach the final image point as if coming from the boundary of the exit pupil, for all incidence angles at the aperture stop boundary. If the secondary mirror is the aperture stop, then there are no telescope optics following the aperture stop and the telescope exit pupil coincides with the stop.
2.6.b PUPILS FOR TWO-MIRROR TELESCOPES
We now apply these definitions to telescopes of the type shown in Fig. 2.7. Taking the aperture stop at the primary, at distance W = (1 − k)f 1 from the secondary, the exit pupil is the image of the primary formed by the secondary. Figure 2.8 shows the exit pupil location for a Cassegrain telescope; for a Gregorian the exit pupil is located between the primary and secondary mirrors.
Sign in to download full-size image
Fig. 2.8. Location of exit pupil for Cassegrain telescope. The exit pupil is closer to the secondary than is the primary focal point. See Eq. (2.6.1).
Applying Eq. (2.3.1) to the geometry in Fig. 2.8, with f 1 δ defined as the distance from the exit pupil to the telescope focal point, and converting to normalized parameters, gives
(2.6.1) δ=m 2 k m+k − 1=m 2(1+β)m 2+β,
where δ > 0 when the focal surface of the system lies to the right of the exit pupil, as shown in Fig. 2.8. Although Eq. (2.6.1) was derived from the diagram for a Cassegrain, it also applies to a Gregorian telescope. The distance from the secondary mirror to the exit pupil, in normalized parameters, is mk − δ. From Eqs. (2.5.7) and (2.6.1) we find
(2.6.2) secondary − exit pupil distance=m k(k − 1)m+k − 1 f 1 ⋅
Using Eqs. (2.3.3) and (2.2.3) we find that the exit pupil diameter is
(2.6.3) D e x=D|δ/m|=f 1|δ/m|⋅
Because the centers of the aperture stop and exit pupil are on the axis of the telescope, the so-called chief ray appears to come from the center of the exit pupil after reflection from the secondary. The chief ray is defined as the ray that passes through the center of the aperture stop. If the angle of incidence of the chief ray at the primary is θ, its angle with respect to the telescope axis is ψ after reflection from the secondary. The relation between these angles is easily derived from the geometry shown in Fig. 2.9, where the focal length of a thin-lens refracting telescope equivalent to a Cassegrain type is f. From Fig. 2.9
Sign in to download full-size image
Fig. 2.9. Relation between incident and final chief ray angles, θ and ψ, respectively, in two-mirror telescope. Here L is the lens of equivalent refractor, EP the exit pupil, FP the focal plane. See Eq. (2.6.4).
(2.6.4) ψ f 1 δ=f θ=m f 1 θ,
hence ψ/θ = m /δ. Because δ is generally of order unity, the chief ray angle at the focal surface is of order m larger than the incident chief ray angle.
If the secondary mirror is the aperture stop, then the exit pupil coincides with the stop. In this case δ = mk, and ψ/θ = 1/ k, or again of order m because mk is usually of order unity in size.
2.6.c EXAMPLES OF PUPILS
The importance of stops and pupils is especially evident when auxiliary optics following the telescope are used to improve overall image quality. In both of the examples discussed here, one or more optical elements reimages the exit pupil of the telescope on to an optical element whose main function is improvement of the image quality. Generally there are additional optical requirements for these optical elements, but these are not relevant to our discussion of pupils.
The most dramatic example of the improvement of image quality was the “fix” of the spherical aberration (SA) present in the images produced by the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) when it was launched in 1990. We will discuss this aberration and the nature of the optical fix in detail in subsequent chapters; at this stage we consider only the role played by pupils in the fix.
The SA present in the HST images was attributed to a primary mirror that had been incorrectly figured. Although the mirror is of superb quality, its shape is less curved than that of the optical prescription, with the maximum difference of about 2μ at the edge of the mirror. The approach adopted to compensate for this error was to place a pair of mirrors (we will call them M1 and M2) into the converging beam near the telescope focus and to make M2 with a corresponding difference, but more curved rather than less. Each point on mirror M2 must be in one-to-one correspondence with a point on the primary, hence must be located at a pupil. The purpose of mirror Ml is to reimage the exit pupil of the telescope on to M2, that is, the exit pupil of the HST is the object for Ml with the image placed on M2.
Another example showing the importance of pupils occurs in the case of adaptive optics, the compensation in realtime of the degrading effects of the Earth's atmosphere on starlight passing through it. (A discussion of the principles of adaptive optics follows in later chapters.) At this point we simply point out that the light reaching the primary mirror of a ground-based telescope is distorted by the atmosphere in a random way on a timescale of milliseconds. Although this mirror may be capable of producing a near-perfect image, to the remaining optics in the telescope it is as if the light from the primary is coming from a “rubber” mirror with everchanging shape on a small scale. The “fix” in this case is auxiliary optics that must reimage the telescope exit pupil on to a flexible mirror, sense and measure the distortion in the incoming light, and transmit the distortion to the flexible mirror in a reversed form to effect compensation.
These two examples are really quite similar. In both cases the exit pupil is reimaged on to a mirror that compensates for a distortion preceding it in the optical train. The major difference is that the correction is static in one case and dynamic in the other.
View chapter Purchase book
First Light and Reionization: Theoretical Study and Experimental Detection of First Luminous Sources in the Universe
James Bock, ... Toyoki Watabe, in New Astronomy Reviews, 2006
The spectrometer is a 7.3 cm refracting telescope with re-imaging optics. A prism inserted in the collimated beam produces low-resolution spectra (R ∼ 20, λ=0.8–2.0 μm). We use a 256 2 HgCdTe array with a pixel size of 40 μm, producing 1′ × 1′ pixels and total field of view of 4°. Four slits located at the field stop produce 1′ × 4° strips on the sky, which the prism disperses into separate spectra on the array. As a result, 256 spectra are available for each slit, and a total of 1024 spectra are obtained.
View article
Recommended publications
Journal of Crystal Growth
Journal
Basic Optics
Book
Advances in Space Research