Dana Bash CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Son, Salary, Net Worth
Dana Bash CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Parents, Husband, Son, John King, Spencer Garrett, Salary, and Net Worth
Ann Phlomena JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Dana Bash Biography and Wiki
Dana Bash (Dana Ruth Schwartz) is an American journalist currently working for CNN as a chief political correspondent based in Washington, D.C., covering both congress and campaigns.
Bash joined CNN working as a producer of their weekend programs such as Evans & Novak, Late Edition, and Inside politics. She was born in New York City, New York, USA, and attended Pascack Hills High School in Montvale, New Jersey where she completed her high school education. Bash then joined George Washington University where she graduated cum laude with a bachelor’s degree in Political Communications.
Dana Bash Age
She was born on June 15, 1971, in New York City, New York, United States. Bash is 49 years old in 2020 and celebrates her birthday on June 15 every year.
Dana Bash Height
Drawing from her photos, Bash is quite short in stature. Her height is around 5 feet 2 inches (Approx 1.57 m).
Bash’s Photo
Dana Bash Parents | Family
She was born to her father, Stuart Schwartz, and mother, Frances Weinman Schwartz. Bash’s father was as an ABC News producer who worked as the senior broadcast producer for Good Morning America while her mother was an editor in Jewish studies as well as an author. They moved to several locations due to the nature of her father’s job including New Jersey, New York, and Washington. According to some sources, Bash has an older sister and two younger brothers.
Dana Bash Husband | Partner
Bash has been married twice and divorced twice. She was first married to her first husband Jeremy Bash who is an American lawyer and a retired CIA Chief of Staff. They tied the knot in 1998 and in 2007 they finalized their divorce. She then married her second husband John King who was a fellow CNN correspondent in 2008. In June 2011, Bash gave birth to her son, Jonah and in 2012 she separated from John King.
Dana Bash Son
When she was married to her second husband John King, she conceived and gave birth to their son, Jonah Frank King in June 2011. After their separation in 2012, Bash has been raising her son as a single mother
Dana Bash John King
After Bash and her first husband divorced in 2007, She married John King, an American journalist working for CNN as a chief national correspondent based in Washington, D.C as well as the anchor of its roundtable political discussion program known as “Inside Politics”. The couple tied the knot on March 25, 2008, and in June 2011, they welcomed their first child, Jonah Frank King. In March 2012 Bash and John separated.
John was born on August 30, 1963, in Boston, Massachusetts, USA. The 56 years old graduated from the University of Rhode Island with a bachelor’s degree in Journalism. John is a father of three, two children with his first wife Jean Makie, and one child with his second wife Dana bash.
Dana Bash Spencer Garrett
Bash met Spencer Garrett in 2013 through a mutual friend Susanna Quinn, when he was on break from House of cards production. Garrett is an American actor and then of personal manager Richard Heckenkamp and actress Kathleen Nolan. The two started dating shortly after they met and have been seen spending time together and having fun at the beach.
Dana Bash Religion
According to some sources, Bash is from the Judaism religion. Before she was married to her second husband, John King who was a Roman Catholic, he had to convert to Judaism first, which was Bash’s religion.
Dana Bash CNN
Bash currently works for CNN as the chief political correspondent based in Washington, D.C., where she covers Congress and Campaigns. She earned the prestigious Dirksen Award from the National Press Foundation in 2010 for her reporting on Congressional earmarks and Senatorial “holds”. Bash interned at CNN, NBC, and CBS before she officially began her career.
She joined CNN in 1993and has shown hard work and dedication in her profession. Bash covered both the 2000 and 2002 midterm elections. She took part in the US presidential campaign network’s coverage in 2004 as well as the midterm election coverage in 2004. Bash was appointed as the chief congressional correspondent for CNN in 2006 and in 2008 she became theWhite House Correspondents’ team member for CNN.
Throughout the US Presidential Campaign in 2012, she together with the other CNN team members received the Peabody Award for their brilliant historical coverage. In addition, Bash was also a lead reporter and co-anchor of CNN coverage in 2016 at the US Presidential elections.
Some of Bash’s colleagues at CNN include:
Natalie Allen – Anchor
David Culver -Anchor and Correspondent
Jeremy Diamond – Correspondent
Fredricka Whitfield – Anchor
Pamela Brown – Correspondent
Christine Romans – Anchor and Correspondent
Alexis Mcadams – Reporter
Ryan Young – Correspondent (Chicago)
Jason Carrol – Correspondent.
Sharon Collins – Anchor (Atlanta)
Kate Bennett – White House Correspondent (Washington)
Victor Blackwell – Correspondent and Anchor (Atlanta)
Kyung Lah – Senior National Correspondent (Los Angeles)
Jim Sciutto – Chief National Correspondent
Stephanie Elam – Correspondent (Los Angeles)
Matt Rivers – International Correspondent  (Mexico)
Shimon Prokupecz – Crime & Justice Correspondent (New York)
Brian Todd – Correspondent (Washington)
Kaitlan Collins – White House Correspondent (Washington)
Dana Bash Salary
She is mostly known for her work as CNN’s chief political correspondent based in Washington, D.C. Bash’s estimated salary is around $100,000 per year.
Dana Bash Net Worth
Having worked in the media industry for almost three decades, Bash has been able to accumulate good fortune. Her estimated net worth is around $6 Million.
Dana Bash Twitter
Tom Llamas ABC, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Family, Wife, Trump, NBC, Salary, and Net Worth
Ras Baraka Newark Mayor, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, Daughters, Salary, and Net Worth