Jessica Dean Biography: Age, Wedding, Salary & Family Details
TV Celebrity
Published on January 18, 2019
Jessica Dean Biography: Age, Wedding, Salary & Family Details
Her biography suggests that Jessica Dean celebrates her birthday on...at the age of...maintained her educational background...is a CNN correspondent based in...has a salary that ranges from...on the height of her career...is married to her husband...exchanged her wedding vows with her husband on...at her parent's house...from a family who loves outdoor...
By MD Writer
Quick Information
Date of Birth August 22
Nationality American
Profession Journalist
Marital Status Married
Husband/Spouse Blake Spencer Rutherford (M. 2009)
Ethnicity White
Net Worth N/A
Height 5 Feet and 4 Inches
Education University of Southern California
Jessica Dean is a CNN correspondent based in Washington, D.C., bureau. Before working in CNN, she worked as a news anchor in CBS3 and appeared on 5, 6, and 11 p.m. newscasts for the station with Ukee Washington. Jessica worked at CBS3 for five years before landing on the height of her career at CNN.
She also anchored the 2016 presidential race live, both election night from Hillary Clinton's headquarters in New York City and US President Donald Trump's inauguration in Washington, D.C.
Jessica Dean Biography, Age
Her biography suggests that Jessica Dean celebrates her birthday on August 22 every year. Her age and birthplace are not known; however, she was raised by an educated family in a little town of Little Rock, Arkansas alongside her sister named Rachael Dean. Jessica comes from a family who loves outdoor adventures. She mentioned on one of her tweets that her father was a farmer.
Jessica Dean says her father is a hunter on 5 November 2009 (Photo: Jessica Dean's Twitter)
She is undoubtedly close to her family members even though she doesn't talk about them as often as other celebrities do.
Worth The Read: Sara Sidner Married, Husband, Partner, Boyfriend, Salary
When it comes to education, Jessica has a degree in Communication and Journalism from the University of Southern California at Los Angeles. Since she was keen about ballet from a very young age, she is also an ambassador for Pennsylvania Ballet Schools and Outreach Initiatives.
Apart from Journalism, Jessica is a foodie who loves traveling, reading books and watching horror movies.
Her Career / Salary
Jessica Dean began her career at KNWA-KFTA in Fort Smith, Arkansas, where she was a general assignment reporter. She then worked at KARK and KATV in Little Rock, KYW-TV in Philadelphia and CBS3. She left CBS3 for better opportunities at CNN.
Even though the exact salary of Jessica Dean is unknown, the close figures can be determined. A correspondent at CNN in Washington, DC earns an average of $100K per year. It can be concluded that Jessica has a salary that ranges from $91K to $120K. With a bold personality and long-term experience, she has indeed amassed herself colossal net worth.
Jessica Dean Wedding, Married & Husband
Jessica Dean is married to her husband, Blake Spencer Rutherford. Her husband is a member of Cozen O’Connor's Government and Regulatory Practice and has a good knowledge of business and government.
She exchanged her wedding vows with her husband on 24 October 2009 at her parent's house. The wedding ceremony was followed by the reception at the same place.
Read Also: Bill Weir Married, Wife, Divorce, Gay, Family
Jessica Dean enjoys wedding ceremony with her husband, Blake Spencer Rutherford on 24 October 2009 (Photo: arkansasonline.com)
Jessica now lives a blissful married life with her husband Blake and their rescue pup, Finn, in Philadelphia. Even though Jessica doesn't regularly talk about her love life, she occasionally mentions her husband in her tweets.