Telescope Presentation by Nick Yau
Telescope Presentation
85
Learn about Prezi
NY
Nick Yau
Tue Dec 03 2013
Outline
17 frames
Reader view
Improvements
What are telescopes?How do telescopes work?
When Galileo heard about the dutches telescopes, he has designed one of his own. His telescope had improvements and he presented his telescope to the venetian senate. Galileo was also first to use his telescope on space and was able to view mountains and craters on the moon. His telescope allowed him to discover more information about space.  Later on Issac Newton working with Johannes Kepler stated that telescopes would be much better with reflection which was very true since very powerful telescopes used reflection
Telescopes are an instrument used to make objects from far distances appear closer. They use a series  lenses (For refraction) or curved mirrors (For reflection). Telescopes collect and bends it into the focus giving you a magnified image.
Sources
Microscopes importance
allows us to look closer
Other than telescopes, microscopes are also very important in science and have changed many things. Some of the things it done or changed is..
The space hubble telescope is a telescope located
in space. The telescope was built in 1990 and was named after Edwin Hubble (Proposed the Hubble Law). The reason it was built in space was because there's distortion and twinkling in the photos due to earth's atmosphere. The Telescope allows you to take clearer images of celestial planets, stars etc. It is located in earths atmosphere and is solar powered. Although it wasn't the first space telescope, the telescope has given sharp pictures that allows scientist to learn much more about space. The telescope uses a series of mirrors and focuses the light to create a
magnified image.
To understand our bodies
Changes/Improvements
The  microscope has gone through many changes. Some of the changes include Robert Hooke discovering pores and skin cells by accident which started the use for biology. Another change is the microscope allowing Anton Van Leeuwenhoek to describe bacteria. We've also had changes such as new kinds of microscopes such as the electron microsope  made by Ernest Ruska. An electron microsope is a microscope that uses an electron beam to light up a specimen for a magnified image of the specimen.
Similar to the invention of the telescope, there was confusion wether it was invented by Hans Lippershey (Credited with the invention of the telescope) or Hans and Zacharias Janssen. It was then credited to Zacharias Jansenn. It is believed that Zacharias inventd the compound and optical telescope with the help of his father or entirely done by his father with the purpose of trying to help people with very poor eyesight.
Microscopes allow us to view small objects that can't be seen by the eye with the use of lenses. There are many kinds of microscopes but the first and most common is the optical microscope. It works by having a condenser lens focusing light on the sample/specimen. The objective lens then magnifies the beam of light which allows the projector lens to have a larger image appear for the viewer
http://www.howstuffworks.com/telescope1.htm
http://www.nasa.gov/audience/forstudents/9-12/features/telescope_feature_912.html
http://www.space.com/21950-who-invented-the-telescope.html
http://www.nasa.gov/audience/forstudents/5-8/features/what-is-the-hubble-space-telecope-58.html#.UpwdyWRDug4
The Space Hubble Telescope
What do Microscopes do? How do they work
The Invention
because they improve out understanding of space
Telescopes & Microsopes Presentation
By-Nick Yau
The History of the Telescope
Provide views not possible to the naked eye
Hans Lippershey was the first known person to invent the
telescope(1608). He created the first known refracting telescope. Hans Lippershey was the first person to recieve a patent for his creation beating Jacob Metius and Zacharias Janssen. Although he recieved the patent first, Metius's telescope was possibly superior  It may be unclear if he was the first one to invent the telescope.
First electron microscope
And give us more information about our surroundings because we would believe the earths is flat without the telescope
How are microscopes and telescopes are applied in science?
We use telescopes and microscopes for different category's of science. We use telescopes for astonomy and microscopes in biology. Some of the reasons of why telescopes are important are
Show full text