Jasmine Wright CNN Wiki, Age, Husband, Salary, Net Worth, Parents, Partner, Married, Hair, Instagram -
USA
Jasmine Wright CNN Wiki, Age, Husband, Salary, Net Worth, Parents, Partner, Married, Hair, Instagram
January 15, 2021 Primal Information 0 Comments cnn jasmine wright age, cnn jasmine wright wikipedia, how old is jasmine wright, how old is jasmine wright cnn, jasmine wright age, jasmine wright bio, jasmine wright cnn age, jasmine wright cnn bio, jasmine wright cnn biography, jasmine wright cnn education, jasmine wright cnn hair, jasmine wright cnn husband, jasmine wright cnn instagram, jasmine wright cnn married, jasmine wright cnn reporter, jasmine wright cnn white house reporter, jasmine wright education, jasmine wright facebook, jasmine wright instagram, jasmine wright married, jasmine wright net worth, jasmine wright parents, jasmine wright partner, jasmine wright salary, jasmine wright wikipedia
Table of Contents
Jasmine Wright Biography – Jasmine Wright Wiki
Jasmine Wright is a reporter covering the White House for CNN. Most recently, she was a political embed covering the 2020 presidential election, trailing then-Senator Kamala Harris during her democratic primary campaign. Wright reprised her role as an embed for Harris when she ran on the democratic ticket as Vice President. She also embedded on Senator Amy Klobuchar’s Democratic primary campaign.
She covered the 2018 midterm elections for CNN, traveling across the country to trail House and Senate candidates on their quest to Capitol Hill along with potential 2020 candidates.
Prior to joining CNN, she was a reporter-producer at PBS NewsHour covering North Korea, climate disasters and the Trump administration. In that role, she wrote and produced countless tape pieces on Congress, the White House and the Russia investigation for the daily news show. Before that, she helped cover the 2016 election as the Political Unit’s production assistant.
Prior to joining PBS NewsHour, she was a NewsOne Intern at ABC News from Sep 2014 – Dec 2014. At ABC News, she field produced news stories, writing and editing for affiliate stations and personal reel. She edited 2 VOSOT’s a day to be sent out to over 200 affiliate stations. She also logged and cut press conferences, briefings, and events several times a day to be distributed to over 200 affiliate stations.
Before ABC News, she was a Reporting Intern at WICD ABC Newschannel 15 from Sept 2012- May 2014. She shot, wrote and edited a report (PKG) that aired on WICD for Sunrise and Midday shows. She also wrote and cut SOT/VO’s for 5PM, 6PM, 10PM and Sunrise newscasts. She also interviewed local citizens and businesses for news stories to be featured on-air.
She was also a News Intern at NBC News May 2013 – Sep 2013 and as a Web Editorial Intern at Inked Magazine from Jun 2012 – Aug 2012. She had her start in journalism as a reporting Intern at The Public i Newspaper from Sep 2011 – Jan 2012.
She graduated with honors from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign with Bachelors of Science in Broadcast Journalism in May 2014. She is a member of the National Association of Black Journalists.
Jasmine Wright Age
She was born and raised in the Windy City, Chicago. She was born on March 3. The year of her birth is unclear.
Jasmine Wright Salary
News analysts, reporters, and journalists in the District of Columbia, where Jasmine Wright is based, earn a mean annual salary of $103,320.
Jasmine Wright CNN Husband – Jasmine Wright CNN Married
It is unclear whether Jasmine Wright is married or not. We are trying to unearth this information for you.
Jasmine Wright Instagram
Jasmine Wright’s Instagram account is @jareewright. Her Instagram bio reads, “White House Reporter @CNN. DC now & Chicago forever.” Her Twitter bio reads, “People can think what they want about me because I’m still gonna get the job done. And better than most of y’all. @cnn White House reporter & always Chicago.”