Adriana Cohen Age, Wikipedia, Husband, Net worth, Married (Bio)
Home » political analyst »
Adriana Cohen Age, Wikipedia, Husband, Net worth, Married (Bio)
by Marathi.TV Editorial Team
Feb 16, 2021
1 Comment
Name Adriana Cohen Wedding & Marriage / Husband / Dating / Partner / Boyfriend Married. See below for relationship details.
Wiki Biography / Profile Information
Introduction :
An American radio host, commentator, TV personality, and columnist, Adriana Cohen is an experienced journalist & currently the lead writer for the prestigious American daily newspaper Boston Herald.
Parents, Family Background & Education :
Adriana is married to a successful software entrepreneur.
She has two children with her husband.
She along with her family currently resides in Concord, Massachusetts.
Education : Adriana did her graduation from Montclair State University in New Jersey. There, she pursued degree in Arts in the discipline of Political Science and Government. The University itself is 99 years old & is one of the prestigious institutions on the East Coast.
She has also studied French Language and literature from L’Université de Nice Sophia Antipolis in France (University of Nice Sophia Antipolis).
Journalism Career, Salary & Net worth :
After graduation, Adriana worked in several jobs related to her field.
In 2010, she joined Senator Scott Brown’s campaign in the capacity of a Senior Finance Committee member. She played an important role in helping Senator raise a total of $42 Million for his campaign. Scott Brown, at the time, was vying for the seat of Massachusetts. Currently, he is serving as United States Ambassador to New Zealand.
In 2012, she was the lead GOP political analyst for CBS Radio, under which she covered the 2012 Presidential & Vice-Presidential debates, the election night, as well as the ‘Talk the Vote’ series.
In November 2013, she joined her present employer, Boston Herald as its Columnist. She is also responsible for hosting a radio talk show, ‘The Adriana Cohen Show,’ which airs every Wednesday from 12 PM to 1 PM.
In addition to the above responsibilities, she was also active on two other shows – ‘The O’Reilly Factor’ and ‘Making Money with Charles Payne.’
Cohen has also made many appearances on news networks & morning shows in the capacity of a Boston Herald Columnist & as a political commentator. Some of the shows she has appeared on include – ‘Fox and Friends’ (2014), ‘Cavuto on Business’ (2014), ‘Your World with Neil Cavuto’ (2014-15), ‘Low Dubbs Tonight’ (2016, Fox News), ‘FBN Risk & Reward,’ ‘FBN Mornings with Maria Bartiromo’ and many others.
She also covered the 2016 US presidential election in great depth.
Interesting Facts, Measurements & Trivia :
Cohen’s political affiliation is to the Republican Party. But she doesn’t let it interfere with her work. Although, she was once termed as ‘Trump Surrogate’ by ‘POLITICO’ magazine.
Despite her busy schedule, she takes the time out for supporting innumerable charities across the country. One of her philanthropic acts is to volunteer now and then at a homeless shelter.
Her main unique selling point is her no-nonsense straight talk delivered in an informative, honest, and entertaining manner. No doubt, the versatility of experience she encompasses takes her work to another level.
Cohen loves to go outdoors and loves listening to music, admiring art, and playing and watching sports.
Body Info / Physical Features
Adriana Cohen Measurements :
Eye Color : Brown
Haircut / Hair Color : Brown
How tall / Height : No confirmed information available.
Feet / Legs / Boots / Shoe Size : No confirmed information available.
Pregnant ? : Currently, she is not expecting a baby.
Personal / Home Details
Adriana Cohen Married ? : Yes
Children / No of Kids : 2
Ethnicity / Origin / Heritage / Race : White
Nationality : American
Age / How old / Birthday / Date of Birth / DOB No confirmed information available on her birth year or the date she was born.
Tags: Female Political Reporters