__label__energy	Essential System Services in Grids Dominated by Renewable Energy Market Reform Initiatives in Australia. Niraj Lal1,2, Toby Price1, Leon Kwek1, Christopher Wilson1, Farhad Billimoria1,3, Trent Morrow1, Matt Garbutt4, and Dean Sharafi1 1 Australian Energy Market Operator, Australia 2 Australian National University , Centre for Sustainable Energy Systems , ACT, Australia 3 Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, Oxford University, Oxford, UK 4 Energy Security Board, Sydney, Australia A Case for Change In 1863, a single arc lamp on Observatory Hill in Sydney was lit to celebrate the marriage of Prince Albert of Wales and Princess Alexandra of Denmark. It was the first use of electricity anywhere in Australia. It took 25 years from this first ligh t to the 1888 establishment of Australia s first permanent 240 V electrical grid in the small country town of Tamworth, New South Wales. Its two 18 kW DC coal-fired generators were supplied by the plentiful Gunnedah black coal basin nearby. In the same yea r, on the other side of the continent, C.J. Otte supplied electricity to the Western Australian Government House with a small 15 kW dynamo. By 1899, a full three -phase 240 V AC grid had been built on the east coast, establishing the foundation of the futur e power system across the country. Then, as today, synchronous coal generators provided the majority of system services to maintain security and reliability. Those services included the inertia to maintain stable frequency, system strength to maintain stab le voltage waveforms, and energy reserves to maintain the balance of supply and demand even with changing demand and unexpected contingency events. Under this arrangement, the supply of these services has been conveniently tied to the supply of electrical energy with synchronous generator s provid ing support simply by being synchronized with the electric grid. For over a century, as the electricity infrastructure and trading systems grew, no separate mechanism s were developed to manage these ancillary service s to the power syste m idll. Instead, grid connection standards implicitly regulated an equitable division of costs among facilities in rough proportion to their size . Operators could recover these costs of doing business as part of their energy revenue. The generation mix around the world is changing rapidly. In Australia, this is happening at a world -leading rate, from having the third most carbon -intensive electricity generation in the world in 2010 to now regularly receiving more than a third of its electricity from renewables. One in five households in the country have distributed photovoltaics (PV) systems (at an average of 600 W installed per person, growing at 250 W per person per year) the highest rate of PV uptake in the worl d. At times, over 100 maximum instantaneous solar and wind penetration is achieved in some regions. Solar and wind generators connect to the AC grid via power -electronics -based inverters , which do not provide traditional system services by default . This means that while inverter -based resources can replace the energy previously provided by synchronous coal and gas generation , the provision of system services is not replaced in proportion. The remaining fleet of synchronous resources then faces a gro wing burden of providing system support services , such as frequency and voltage control and spinning reserves, while revenues simultaneously fall with electricity prices and reduced market share or energy generation. Left unchecked, this dynamic undermines the implicit stability that has historically supported the electricity system. In Australia s National Electricity Market (NEM), this has manifested in a 10 -fold increase over the past five years in the number of occasions the system operator has had to intervene outside of normal market operations to maintain security and reliability (Figure 1a) . There has been a significant reduction in frequency control performance since 2007 (Figure 1b) due to reduced provision of primary frequency control . Uncertainty and variability in net demand from increasing renewable penetration are expected to triple in the NEM over the coming five years (Figure 1c) as solar and wind are projected to regularly me et 100 of demand (Figure 1d). Figure 1 a) Operator directions in the NEM; b) frequency distribution plot in the NEM to 2019 ; c) butterfly plot of 5 - minute net demand ramps (historical and forecast); d) forecast penetration of solar and wind as a percentage of underlying demand . (Source: AEMO R enewable Integration Study Stage 1 2020, AEMO Frequency and Time monitoring report Q1 2020 ) As the g eneration mix has changed, a handful of events have catalyzed political interest and action. After a September 2016 state-wide blackout in South Australia, the Australian government commissioned a Review of the Future Security of the National Electricity Market by Australia s chief scientist Alan Finkel. This led to the establishment of an overarching Energy Security Board (ESB) to implement a long -term, fit -for-purpose market framework to deliver a secure, reliable and lower emissions electricity syst em at least cost in the NEM. A key workstream of this reform program is to establish new markets and mechanisms for providing system support services. These were traditionally called ancillary services but are now increasingly being referred to as essential system services (ESS) in recognition of their changing value in grids with low levels of synchronous generation. There is a growing consensus that without market reform, the market operator s remit to keep the lights on will li kely be accompanied by increased curtailment of renewables and increased complexity of operation. This trend is already being observed. In 2019 -20, renewables were curtailed on average 7 of the year in the NEM due to ancillary service requirements, and operator interventions were in place more than 10 of the year. This article presents the Australian approach to the challenge of providing ESS in grids with a very high penetration of renewables, outlining first the physical and regulatory contexts of two comparative systems and markets the NEM (with five regions across Australia s eastern and southern states), and
__label__energy	Full Spectrum Diffused and Beamed Solar Energy Application Using Optical Fi bre M. R. Dutta M ajumdar and Debasish Da s Variable Energy Cyclo tron Cen tre,1 AF, Bidh an N agar, Kolkata 700 064, IN DIA email: mrdm veccal.e rnet.in ABSTRACT: Existing solar energ y application systems use small fr action of full spe ctrum of solar energ y. So attempts are made to show how full spectru m solar en ergy can be used for diffused and beamed form of in cident solar en ergy. Lu minescent Solar Conc entrator (LSC) pr inciple with optical fib re in diffused sun ligh t and dielectri c mirro r separation technique with optical fibre in beamed form ar e discussed. Compar ison of both the cases are done . Keywords: full spectru m, s olar photonics, diffused solar en ergy, beamed solar en ergy, LS C, d ielectric mirro r, optical fibre, Photo-Vo ltaic I. INTRO DUCTION Solar photonic s, whic h is an e merging area, has culminated the use of photonics, opt oelectronic compone nts and light-wave propagation media towa rds the successful use of solar e nergy. Solar e nergy incide nt on eart h surface has wide spect rum rang ing from 200 nm to 2500 nm. The entire spect rum is divided into few wave-length regions. The m ajor application areas of solar energy are ph otosynthesis, illu mination, h eatin g an d photovoltaic process. Solar radiation reaching eart h surface m ay be in diffused or directional beam form . So conce ntrated collection o f solar radiation nee ds lens-m irror c ombination fo r beam ed radi ation and Luminescent So lar Con centrator (LSC) principle 1,2 for diff used radiatio n. Some atte mpts are done to propose schemes for better and efficien t way of utilizatio n of so lar energy in daily life. II. METHO DOLOG Y A. Solar energ y applicatio n limita tion Solar en ergy availab le in variou s reg ions is typically 8.3 ultra-violet (20 0 nm 400 nm), 38.2 vi sible (400 nm 700 nm), 28 .1 near infra-red (700 nm 11 00 nm) and 25. 4 infra red far -infrared portion. All other processes excl uding heat ing require a small portion of s olar spectrum. In case of heating near i nfrared and i nfrared portions a re more usef ul and ef ficient. Photo-synthesis re quires ve ry selective ba nds of radiation in visible and nea r infra red region. Illumination re quires radiation in the range of 400 nm to 700 n m. Silico n Photo Voltaic (PV ) cells efficien cy is n early 1 0 and are no t sensitive above 1100 nm . Ove r all efficiency is reasona ble within the region of 700 nm to 1100 nm. One ca n see t hat for a s olar irra diated a rea, only a small amount of incident radiation is used out of full spectrum solar ener gy. But by the proposed full spect rum appl ication sch emes one ca n use sim ultaneously alm ost all radiatio n for differe nt ways of applicatio n. B. Collection of diffused sol ar ener gy Any imaging opt ical devi ce m ay not possibly conce ntrate diffused sol ar radiation coming t o earth s s urface due to cl ouds a nd dust. The alternative method of light collectio n under such conditions is th e use of luminescent (fluorescen t) or Wave Length Shifting (WLS) radiation converters. A luminescent solar con centrator is essen tially a large transparent a rea of high refractive index material doped with suitable inorganic or organic dopant material and s urrounded by low re fractive index material. A portio n of the so lar sp ectrum is ab sorbed in the dopant and t hen re-emitted i sotropically at longer wave -length where it is weakl y re-absorbed. Small fractio n of t his ligh t is trap ped insid e the transparent medium due to total in ternal reflectio n occu rring at the boundary of denser and lighter media. Light trappe d insi de sheet m aterial com es out at the edges. Production of white light by mixing outputs of LSC plastic sheets 3,4 of three fundam ental color like Red, Blue and Gree n were re ported earli er. We also prese nt how LSC technique m ay be useful using luminescent optical fibre for light trapping 5 and f urther st udies done wi th purely diffused light for m ultiple app licatio ns. C. Normal - Lumine scent optical fibre: Norm al optical fibre: In normal optical fibre l ight launched al ong the axi s of optical fibre to core (high refractive index) with suitable an gle expe rience i nternal reflectio n at the c ore, clad (low refractive inde x) interface. This way light propagates t o distant place as s een in communication optical fibres. But for solar en ergy light transmission optical fibre should be of low loss, high numerical apert ure and larg e cro ss-section . It sh ould tran smit wid e spectru m of solar rad iation at high intensity with out degradation of opt ical property of optical fibre material. So me ap plication s of solar en ergy with optical fi bre are: Optical fi bre for solar en ergy transport 6 Plane of m ini-dish collection syste m 7 Intense solar thermal energy 8 for turbine Hybrid day ligh ting 9 Materials fo r normal optical fib re for solar ene rgy work are: Pure quartz glass for ultra violet region Plastic optical fibre for visible region Silica g lass fo r near IR or IR region Halide glass o r Hollow W ave Guide(HW G) for IR a nd far IR. region Lum inescent optical fi bre: The c ore material is mixed with fluorescen t
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	Repurposing Coal Power Plants into Thermal Energy Storage for Supporting Zero-carbon Data Centers Yifu Ding, Serena Patel, Dharik Mallapragada, Robert James Stoner MIT Energy Initiative, yifuding, serenap, dharik, stoner mit.edu Abstract Coal power plants need to be phased out and face stranded asset risks under the net-zero energy system transition. Repurposing coal power plants could save costs and reduce carbon emissions using the existing infrastructure and grid connections. This paper investigates a retrofitting strategy that turns coal power plants into thermal energy storage (TES) and zero-carbon data centers (DCs). The proposed capacity expansion model considers the co-locations of DCs, local renewable genera- tion, and energy storage with the system-level coal retirement and retrofitting. We optimize the DC system configurations under the hourly-matching carbon policy and flexible operations. Results show that under hourly-matching carbon constraints, the retrofitted TES could complement the operations of lithium- ion batteries (LIBs) to reduce system costs. This could render DCs with optimal co-located renewable generations and energy storage more cost-effective than unconstrained DCs. Index Terms Thermal energy storage, repurposed coal power plants, data centers, carbon policy, capacity expansion model. I. I NTRODUCTION A. Background and motivations Coal power plants are the largest carbon emission source in the world and contributed to 15 of the total emissions in 2020. The total capacity of U.S. coal power plants reached 204 GW by 2020 1 . Decarbonizing power systems requires the early retirement of high-emitting coal power plants and the integration of renewable energy. However, coal power plants provide inertia and ancillary services in the power systems, and renewable capacity expansion requires significant investments and new grid interconnections. In fact, a number of renewable generation projects in the U.S. get delayed or even canceled when waiting for interconnection construction 2 . Retrofitting coal power plants provides a cost-saving solu- tion by reusing the existing infrastructure and interconnections. They can be repurposed into thermal energy storage (TES) 3 , nuclear reactors 4 , and data centers (DCs) 5 . These projects could significantly reduce carbon footprint and facilitate re- newable energy integration. For example, when retrofitting coal power plants into TES, the boiler is replaced by heat storage and heat exchangers to store energy. The power is discharged via power blocks such as steam turbines. The sen- sible heat storage can be built using low-cost storage materials such as molten salt and thus has a lower energy capital cost of 15-25 kWh th 6 . This makes TES a potential technology for long-duration energy storage designs in renewable-heavy grids or off-grid systems 7 . Another promising approach to repurposing coal power plants is DCs. DCs are the backbone of IT services and data management. The total energy consumption of DCs worldwidehad grown to 273 TWh by 2020, which accounted for 1 of the global energy consumption 8 . Several projections show this percentage could increase to around 20-50 by 2030 9 , 10 . The increasing share of hyperscale DCs, whose energy consumption is equivalent to thousands of households, has significantly stressed local electricity transmission and generation 8 , 10 . IT companies nowadays build DCs on the former sites of coal power plants to reuse interconnections and mitigate impacts, such as demonstration projects in New York State 5 . B. Related works To offset additional carbon emissions of DCs and meet the net-zero carbon goal, cloud providers voluntarily purchase green electricity to match their energy consumption via power purchase agreements and unbundled renewable energy certifi- cates 11 . For example, Google has set the goal to run 24 7 carbon-free energy on every grid the company operates by 2030 12 . DCs also provide flexibility to utilize intermittent renewable energy and reduce curtailment. Previous works have proposed load-shifting and coordination strategies for DCs to reduce carbon emissions, including the spatial load migration 13 and temporal computing workload shifting 14 . Nevertheless, the prerequisite of their implementations is to plan adequate local renewable capacity and energy storage in tandem with the increasing load of DCs. DCs require high reliability in power supply. Commercial DCs only allow 2.4 minutes to 1.6 hours of downtime per year and have an uninterrupted power supply onsite for emergency 15 . However, it is very cost-prohibitive to use only short- duration LIBs and renewable energy resources for a reliable power supply. Ref. 16 discusses the optimal configurations of on- and off-grid DCs using renewable energy sources. It shows that a combination of hydrogen storage and LIBs will reduce costs for the off-grid DC systems, even though the total investment is still much higher than the grid-connected DCs. To this end, retrofitting coal power plants into low-cost TES to support zero-carbon DCs brings a unique opportunity. This paper develops an integrated capacity expansion strategy that links plant-level retrofitting strategies with upstream grid flex- ibility needs. This model co-optimizes DCs, retrofitted TES, LIB, and local renewable generations and also investigates the system-wide economic and carbon emission impacts when there are flexible or inflexible DCs. 1arXiv:2402.09675v1 eess.SY 15 Feb 2024 II. M ODEL FORMULATIONS A. Capacity expansion problem considering coal retrofitting We model a power system that has a main system and mul- tiple regions z Z to co-locate DCs and generation capacity. It also includes a set of gas and coal power plants y Gth, renewable energy resources y Gres, and grid-connected energy storage s O . The proposed capacity expansion problem considers investment, retirement, and retrofitting of coal power plants and investments in renewable resources. The model also sizes the grid-connected LIBs s Oliband retrofitted TES s Otes. While the LIB has a symmetrical charging and discharging power capacity, TES is asymmetrical energy storage that requires the sizing of charge, discharge, and energy capacity. The objective function consists of capac- ity, retrofitting investments, and operation costs. minX z Z X y GthIth yPsize yΩinv y,z Fth yPsize yΩnet y,z z Investment, retirement and retrofitting of coal power plants X y GresIres yPinv y,z Fres y(Pinv y,z Pexist y,z) z Planning renewable resources X s OlibIdis sPdis
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	arXiv:2207.00286v1 cond-mat.other 1 Jul 2022Antiferromagnetic half-skyrmions electrically generate d and controlled at room temperature O. J. Amin1, S. F. Poole1, S. Reimers1,2,3, L. X. Barton1, F. Maccherozzi2, S. S. Dhesi2, V. Novák4, F. Křížek4, J. S. Chauhan1, R. P. Campion1, A. W. Rushforth1, T. Jungwirth1,4, O. A. Tretiakov5, K. W. Edmonds1, and P. Wadley1 1School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, United Kingdom 2Diamond Light Source, Chilton, OX11 0DE, United Kingdom 3Johannes Gutenberg Universität Mainz, Institut für Physik , Staudingerweg 7, 55128 Mainz, Germany 4Institute of Physics, Czech Academy of Sciences, 162 00 Praha 6, Prague, Czech Republic 5School of Physics, The University of New South Wales, Sydney 2 052, Australia July 4, 2022 Abstract Topologically protected magnetic textures, such as skyrmi ons, half-skyrmions (merons) and their antiparticles, constitute tiny whirls i n the magnetic order. They are promising candidates for information carriers in next- generation memory de- vices, as they can be eﬃciently propelled at very high veloci ties using current- induced spin torques 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 . Antiferromagnets hav e been shown to host versions of these textures, which have gained signiﬁca nt attention because of their potential for terahertz dynamics, deﬂection free m otion, and improved size scaling due to the absence of stray ﬁeld 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 1 2 . Here we show that topological spin textures, merons and antimerons, can be generated at room temperature and reversibly moved using electrical pulses i n thin ﬁlm CuMnAs, a semimetallic antiferromagnet that is a testbed system for s pintronic applications 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 . The electrical generation and ma nipulation of antifer- romagnetic merons is a crucial step towards realizing the fu ll potential of antifer- romagnetic thin ﬁlms as active components in high density, h igh speed magnetic memory devices. The deﬁning feature of a topological texture is a non-zero wi nding number, also called topological charge. In magnetic systems, this is a measure of the integer number of times the order parameter wraps around a unit sphere (Bloch sphere) when integrated ov er the texture volume. Magnetic textures with diﬀerent winding numbers are topologically d istinct and cannot be easily changed from one topological state to another. This provides strong prot ection against perturbation and prevents their collapse even at ultrasmall sizes 20 . In ferromagne tic (FM) thin ﬁlms, where the magnetization deﬁnes the topological charge, Q, skyrmions ( Q 1) and merons ( Q 1 2) have been generated and controlled using external ﬁelds and current-induced sp in torques 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 . However, their implementation into practical devices has b een limited by the presence of gyrotropic forces, originating from their topology, that cause an unwa nted transverse deﬂection to their current- driven motion 29 . This eﬀect is alleviated in antiferromagnets (AFs) due to th eir compensated FM sublattices. The AF order parameter, called the Néel vector, is given by L M1 M2in collinear AFs, where M1and 1 M2are antiparallel sublattice magnetizations. Analogous to the magnetization in FMs, the Néel vector deﬁnes the Néel topological charge, QN, of the AF spin texture. However, current-induced gyrotropic forces, F(k) gyro G(k)ˆz J, depend on the gyrocoupling constant G 4πQ(k), which is a function of the sublattice topological charge, Q(k). When integrated over the texture volume the gyrotropic forces fully compensate, resulting in a remaini ng generalized drag force, Fdrag ΓβJ, in the direction of the current, where βis the sum of the current-induced spin torques acting on the AF topological texture 8 . The dynamics of the AF topolo gical texture under the action of current-induced spin torques is described by the generaliz ed Thiele s equation 30, 31, 32 , Fi Mij bj αΓij bj, (1) where the bjare the collective coordinates of the topological spin stru cture,Mijis the mass tensor, andαΓijcharacterizes the viscous friction. The AF topological tex ture is propelled by this force at terminal velocity v bardbl βJ, parallel to the current direction, as shown schematically in Fig. 1a. c d Figure 1: AF textures in CuMnAs. a, Spin structure and force a cting on an AF Bloch-type meron under an applied current pulse J. b, Unit cell and magnetic structure of CuMnAs. c, d, XMLD- PEEM images of a vortex structure in CuMnAs. The blue single- and double-headed arrows indicate the x-ray incidence and polarization vectors, while the col our wheels and red double-headed arrows indicate the spin axis orientation inferred from the XMLD co ntrast. The scale bar corresponds to 1µm. e, Optical image of the device structure used for electrica l pulsing. The spatial scale bar corresponds to 10µm. The incentive for ﬁnding host materials has led to the experi mental observation of AF topological textures in complex systems, including synthetic AF hetero structures 11 and FM AF bilayers 9, 10, 12 . Recently, the nucleation of merons and antimero ns has been demonstrated in a pure AF material, α-Fe2O3 7 . However, nucleation methods requiring either externa l magnetic ﬁelds 2 or thermal cycling are impractical for integrable devices. It has also yet to be shown that, once generated, topological AF textures can be controllably mov ed. Here, we bridge this gap by showing that AF merons and antimerons can be electrically generated and controlled at room temperature in a conducting AF material, CuMnAs. CuMnAs has the required cr ystal symmetries to host current- induced Néel spin orbit torques (NSOTs), which can eﬃcientl y manipulate the AF order 13 . This makes it an ideal candidate material for AF-based spintroni c devices. Our experiments are performed on tetragonal phase CuMnAs (s pace group P4 nmm), epitaxially grown on a lattice-matched GaP(001) substrate 33 . Below t he Néel temperature of 480K, the Mn atoms form two magnetic sublattices which are stacked ver tically in the crystallographic c-axis (Fig. 1b). The magnetic easy axis lies in the ab-plane due to magnetocrystalline anisotropy. The precise behaviour of the magnetic
__label__energy	How will electric vehicles affect trafﬁc congestion and energy consumption: an integrated modelling approach Artur Grigorev1, Tuo Mao1, Adam Berry1, Joachim Tan2, Loki Purushothaman1, Adriana-Simona Mihaita1 Abstract This paper explores the impact of electric ve- hicles (EVs) on trafﬁc congestion and energy consumption by proposing an integrated bi-level framework comprising of: a) a dynamic micro-scale trafﬁc simulation suitable for modelling current and hypothetical trafﬁc and charging de- mand scenarios and b) a queue model for capturing the impact of fast charging station use, informed by trafﬁc ﬂows, travel distances, availability of charging infrastructure and estimated vehicle battery state of charge. To the best of our knowledge, this paper represents the ﬁrst integrated analysis of potential trafﬁc congestion and energy infrastructure impacts linked to EV uptake, based on real trafﬁc ﬂows and the placement and design of existing fast-charging infrastructure. Results showcase that the integrated queue-energy-transport modelling framework can predict correctly the limitations of the EV infrastructure as well as the trafﬁc congestion evolution. The modelling approach identiﬁes concrete pain points to be addressed in both trafﬁc and energy management and planning. The code for this project can be found at : https: github.com Future-Mobility-Lab EV-charging-impact Index Terms electric vehicles, trafﬁc simulation modelling, queue modelling, recharging scenario evaluation, fast charge impact modelling I. M OTIVATION The adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) at large scale around the globe is largely dependent on two key factors: charging accessibility for its consumers and availability of sufﬁcient electrical grid capacity to support vehicle charging, particularly where fast charging infrastructure is necessary. Under ideal conditions for the consumer, access to an EV charging station should be just as convenient as current ac- cess to a petrol station. Several studies have been conducted in recent years to model and identify suitable locations for such charging stations 2 , 3 . The majority of these studies are based on the behavioural pattern of combustion engine (CE) drivers. However, the behaviour of electric vehicle (EV) drivers is signiﬁcantly different in terms of location selection and their waiting time to charge 2 , 4 . Multiple factors can inﬂuence the decision of EV drivers to choose a speciﬁc location to charge, among which we cite: the travel time 1Most authors are with the University of Technology in Sydney, Faculty of Engineering and IT, School of Computer Science: 61 Broadway Ultimo, NSW, Australia. Corresponding authors contact: artur.grigorev student.uts.edu.au, adriana-simona.mihaita uts.edu.au 2This work was sponsored by AEMO the Australian Energy Market Operator. The authors are highly grateful for the guidance and support of Joachim Tan, Adrian Grantham, Greg Staib and Andrew Turley. Joachim Tan is a Principal Manager in the Australian Energy Market Operators and main lead of the UTS AEMO project collaboration. 3The authors are highly grateful for the guidance and data support of Transport for NSW, Australia, more speciﬁcally Virginie Vernin, Bill Chen, Blake Xu and Marwan Daizli.towards the closest EV station, the state of charge of the battery (SoC) while driving, the waiting time in queue at the EV station, the total charging time that a driver needs to plan different activities around while the car is charging. The stochasticity of this charging behaviour makes the modelling of EVs a hard problem to solve, which may delay evidence- based infrastructure planning at a government level and reduce investment conﬁdence for commercial infrastructure and electric vehicle businesses. Therefore, the inability to charge conveniently in the trafﬁc network coupled with limited charging stops makes the problem challenging from both operational and planning perspectives. Even more chal- lenging, evaluating the grid impact of EV adoption comes along not only with a consumer random behaviour affected as well by trafﬁc congestion variation, but with the physical constraints of both infrastructure availability and maximal energy capacity of each serviced area. These challenges represent the motivation of this study which to the best of our knowledge is the ﬁrst to propose an integrated bi-level framework comprised of a dynamic traf- ﬁc simulation modelling coupled with queueing behaviour modelling for estimating the impact of trafﬁc demand and congestion on EV fast charging behaviour and vice-versa. A. Related works Several studies 5 - 6 , have been conducted to forecast the electricity demand that will be created by the penetration of EVs into the market in the future. There are also works to determine and forecast the impact this electricity demand will have on the existing power grids 7 . However, the majority of these studies either orient themselves towards analysing the impact of the electricity consumption on the grid using hypothetical assumptions of the charging locations or very broad estimations of the major attraction points in speciﬁc areas (p-median or location-allocation problem) such as shopping malls, schools, hospitals and workplaces 8 . Alternatively, some studies that have considered the user equilibrium (UE) approach to optimise the route choice so that the travel time is minimized when recharging 9 , 10 . However, these studies have several assumptions such as that congestion will not affect the electricity consumption or that the path lengths are within battery driving range. However, congestion represents an important factor to be taken into consideration in the EV impact modelling, especially when the fast charging stations reach their plug-in capacity. Some studies have developed queuing models that take into consid- eration the station capacity, the charging time and EV waiting time for example 11 ; others have considered as well thearXiv:2110.14064v1 eess.SY 26 Oct 2021 Permanent traffic count dataUpper level Lower levelOD demand matrix Detector Count Data EV charging station location5. EV Charging queueing model1. North Sydney traffic simulation Substation capacity data Daily energy dynamic load data Total travel timeAverage travel distanceRealistic OD demandQueue length daily profile Average waiting time to charge Maximum instant energy consumptionTotal wait time to charge3. Calibrated North Sydney traffic simulation Total travel time after inserting EV charging station queue4. North Sydney traffic simulation EV charging congestionEV charging station congestion impact analysis Quantified impact of EV charging stations on traffic congestions 6. Home and destination charging modelImpact of home
__label__energy	A Review and Outlook of Energy Consumption Estimation Models for Electric Vehicles Yuche Chen1 , Guoyuan Wu2, Ruixiao Sun1, Abhishek Dubey3, Aron Laszka4, Philip Pugliese5 1Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29209 2Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California, Riverside, CA 92507 3Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 4Department of Computer Science, University of Houston, Houston, TX 5Chattanooga Area Regional Transportation Authority, 1617 Wilcox Blvd, Chattanooga, TN 37406 Corresponding author: Phone: 1 (803) 777-9105; e-mail: chenyuc cec.sc.edu Abstract Electric vehicles (EVs) are critical to the transition to a low-carbon transportation system. The successful adoption of EVs heavily depends on energy consumption models that can accurately and reliably estimate electricity consumption. This paper reviews the state of the art of EV energy consumption models, aiming to provide guidance for future development of EV applications. We summarize influential variables of EV energy consumption in four categories: vehicle component, vehicle dynamics, traffic, and environment-related factors. We classify and discuss EV energy consumption models in terms of modeling scale (microscopic vs. macroscopic) and methodology (data-driven vs. rule-based). Our review shows trends of increasing macroscopic models that can be used to estimate trip-level EV energy consumption and increasing data-driven models that utilize machine learning technologies to estimate EV energy consumption based on a large volume of real-world data. We identify research gaps for EV energy consumption models, including the development of energy estimation models for modes other than personal vehicles (e.g., electric buses, trucks, and nonroad vehicles), energy estimation models that are suitable for applications related to vehicle-to-grid integration, and multiscale energy estimation models as a holistic modeling approach. Key Words: electric vehicles, energy consumption estimation, machine learning model 1. Introduction The transportation sector is a major energy consumer and contributor to air pollution. Governments around the world are taking steps to address energy and air pollution problems caused by transportation. A portfolio of strategies should be employed to mitigate transportation-related air pollution and reduce transportation s dependence on fossil fuels 1 . Transportation electrification is among the approaches promoted by industry, public agencies, and research communities. Electric vehicles (EVs) are considered one option to achieve low-carbon transportation systems. Countries around the globe are setting aggressive targets to promote EVs or even proposing to ban the future sale of internal combustion engine vehicles 2 . Norway, for example, wants EVs to account for 100 of its new-car sales by 2025. China aims to reach 7 million annual EV sales by 2025, which is equivalent to one fifth of its domestic market demand. France, United Kingdom, and California in the United States have proclaimed that they will end sales of internal combustion engine vehicles by 2040. The automotive industry expects EVs to become the major powertrain in the vehicle market by 2030 3 . Despite the environmental benefits and rapid growth of EVs in the global market, range anxiety (i.e., user s concern about the insufficient all-electric range of an EV to reach a destination or charging point) is considered a major barrier that limits their wide adoption 4 . Reliable and accurate estimation of EV energy consumption can significantly mitigate range anxiety and help EV users can arrange their itineraries accordingly 5 . Additionally, vehicle-to-grid integration has drawn a tremendous amount of attention from research and industry communities in recent years, wherein EVs can communicate with the power grid to provide short-term demand response services that can balance loads (e.g., peak shaving) in the grid 6 . In this case, the EV energy consumption model can play an important role because it allows optimal management of EV battery charging and discharging activities with the consideration of integrated system efficiency in terms of energy use and transportation needs. However, estimating the electricity consumption of an EV is a challenging problem. Various factors influence electricity consumption. In addition, the model setup can significantly vary depending on the granularity (in both time and space) of estimation. Over the years, a considerable amount of research has been conducted to gather insights into energy consumption estimation modeling of EVs. The majority of models can be classified from two perspectives: modeling scale and modeling methodology. Modeling scale refers to the spatial temporal resolution of energy estimation results, which can be as detailed as an energy consumption rate (e.g., kWh per second) or averaged at the individual road link or trip level (e.g., kWh per mile). In literature, modeling scale is determined based on both the purpose of study and data availability. Methodologies of existing models can be roughly classified into rule-based and data-driven. Rule-based models adopt a white-box approach that follows some fundamental physics laws and mimics the dynamics and interactions of various vehicle and powertrain components to estimate energy consumption. Data-driven models draw on a black-box approach so that users do not need to understand the physical process of electricity generation and consumption, or even the principles governing vehicle dynamics and powertrain operation, but instead rely on the exploration of the statistical relationship between inputs and energy outputs with certain assumptions or statistical techniques. This study aimed to provide a broad perspective of EV electricity consumption estimation and support the improvement of models and development of emerging EV applications. This review focused on papers published after 2010 because this decade witnessed a surge of publications on EVs. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides background information on mechanics and components of EVs. Section 3 involves a taxonomy analysis of influential variables for EV energy estimation. Section 4 and Section 5 classify and discuss existing EV electricity consumption models in the literature based on their modeling scale and modeling methodology. Section 6 and Sections 7 summarize possible applications of EV electricity consumption models and offer concluding thoughts. 2. Background 2.1. EV Types and Configuration In a broad definition, EVs refer to road vehicles whose propulsion involves electricity 7 , including battery EVs (BEVs); hybrid EVs; plug-in hybrid EVs; and fuel-cell EVs. Figure 1 illustrates
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Petroleum Petrochemical Engineering Journal ISSN: 2578-4846 MEDWIN PUBLISHERS Committed to Create Value for Researchers Well Cement Degradation and Wellbore Integrity in Geological CO2 Storages: A Literature Review Pet Petro Chem Eng J Well Cement Degradation and Wellbore Integrity in Geological CO2 Storages: A Literature Review Nguyen V , Olatunji O, Guo B and Ning Liu Department of Petroleum Engineering, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, USA Corresponding author: Nguyen V, Department of Petroleum Engineering, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, LA 70504, USA, Tel: 6787903709; Email: vu.nguyen1 louisiana.eduReview Article Volume 5 Issue 3 Received Date: July 21, 2021 Published Date: July 28, 2021 DOI: 10.23880 ppej-16000269 Abstract Carbon capture and storage (CCS) has emerged as the most effective method to curb the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. It can store up to 5 billion tons of CO2 per year. To guarantee a safe and economical geological storage, the well cement degradation and wellbore integrity need to be studied thoroughly. This review paper is designed to provide a fundamental background of well cement degradation and wellbore integrity in geological CO2 storages to support the researchers in further investigation. The review mainly focuses on mechanical, thermal, chemical property changes and corrosion time for cement in experiments and simulation during geological CO2 storage. However, the debonding interface between casing cement or cement formation has not been addressed profoundly. A further investigation should inspect how pressure, temperature, and chemical reaction affect the micro-annuli of casing cement or cement formation. Also, a mathematical model should be established to predict the corrosion rate in geological CO2 storage. Keywords: Geological; Corrosion; CO2 concentration; Storage; Well cement Introduction Portland cement is composed of four major components: tricalcium silicate (Ca3SiO5 or C3S), dicalcium silicate (Ca2SiO4 or C2S), tricalcium aluminate (Ca3Al2O6 or C3A), tetracalcium aluminoferrite (Ca4Al2Fe2O10 or C4AF) 1 . The composition of Portland cement 2 can be found in Table 1. Corresponding to MacLaren DC 3 , the Portland cement dissolves in water through the following reactions in Equation1 and Equation 2: ()3 5 2 3 27 2 22 .3 3 Ca SiO H O Ca Si O H O Ca OH (1) ()2 4 2 3 27 2 22 4 .3 Ca SiO H O Ca Si O H O Ca OH (2) An understanding of cement corrosion during the geologic storage of CO2 is critical. The mechanism of cement corrosion takes place in the following sequence of reaction: CO2 will first dissolve in Calcium hydroxide (CH) to form calcite 4 ( calcium carbonate) by the reaction in Equation 3: ()2 32 2CO Ca OH CaCO H O (3) This reaction benefits the mechanical property of the wellbore. Specifically, calcite would enhance the mechanical strength of the cement layer and reduce porosity, which results in the permeability decreasing. The decline of permeability characteristics will retard the possibility of CO2 leakage. Then the Calcium Silicate Hydrate (Ca3SiO7.3H2O or C-H-S) in cement reacts with CO2 by Equation 4 Petroleum Petrochemical Engineering Journal 2 Nguyen V, et al. Well Cement Degradation and Wellbore Integrity in Geological CO2 Storages: A Literature Review. Pet Petro Chem Eng J 2021, 5(3): 000269.Copyright Nguyen V, et al. 3 27 2 2 3 2 2 .3 3 3 2 Ca Si O H O CO CaCO SiO H O (4) Cement quality is reduced when it is converted to bicarbonate in the presence of excess CO2 5 in Equation 5. ()2 32 32 CO CaCO H O Ca HCO (5) Dissolution of the bicarbonate in the presence of water leaves the material more porous. This reaction is a great issue to stop CO2 from leaking. The challenge is how to control the bicarbonate reaction and predict the penetration depth of carbonation to protect the cement layer sheath from damage. Several groups have been conducting experiments to enhance the trait of cement to inhibit the corrosion process 6-10 . Others used the mathematical model to simulate how quickly CO2 would penetrate by diffusion mechanism through the cement layer 11,12 . Some groups carried out an experiment by measuring the penetration depth versus time with support from techniques such as Secondary Energy Microscopy, X-Ray Diffraction, Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM)-Back Scattered Electrons (BSE) micrograph, and Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS) map, etc 13,14 . The penetration depth was found as a function of the square root of time. However, these studies are time consuming, expensive, and prone to error. Therefore, an accurate mathematical model is required to govern the diffusion process to reduce any drawback by experiment- induced and increase the answer s reliability. The diffusion equation (Equation 6) by Fick s second law will suit this requisition: 2 22 ( ) ( )CtDC x (6) Where C is the carbonate concentration; t is the cement exposure time, D is the diffusion coefficient; x is the penetration depth. ASTM type Description C3S C2S C3A C3AF CS2 I General purpose 55 17 10 7 6 II Moderate sulfate resistant 55 20 6 10 5 III High early strength 55 17 9 8 7 IV Low heat of hydration 35 40 4 12 4 V Sulfate resistant 55 20 4 12 4 (C Cao, S SiO2, A Al2O3, and F Fe2O2) Table 1: Composition of Portland cement (wt. ). Cement and Wellbore Property One of the crucial tasks of a wellbore is well cementing. The purposes of well cementing are to reinforce the casing strength, prevent undesirable formations away from the borehole, inhibit casing corrosion rate, constraint irregular pore pressure, etc. The most substantial function of cementing is to obtain zonal isolation. The other duty of cementing that is also important is to acquire a good bond between cement and pipe or cement and formation. However, the cement characteristics are changed over time. During CO2 storage, the three most common changes in the cement and in the rock that need to be concerned are mechanical, thermal, and chemical properties. Mechanical Property The pressure build-up due to CO2 injection may result in the poro-mechanical effect. The change in pressure leads to a change in the
__label__energy	Flow-based nodal cost allocation in a heterogeneous highly renewable European electricity network Bo Tranberga,b, Leon J. Schwenk-Nebbec,1, Mirko Sch afera, Jonas H orschd, Martin Greinera aDepartment of Engineering, Aarhus University, Inge Lehmanns Gade 10, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark bDanske Commodities A S, Vaerkmestergade 3, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark cDepartment of Physics and Astronomy, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 120, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark dFrankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies (FIAS), Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universit at, Ruth-Moufang-Stra e 1, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Abstract For a cost e cient design of a future renewable European electricity system, the placement of renewable generation capacity will seek to exploit locations with good resource quality, that is for instance onshore wind in countries bordering the North Sea and solar PV in South European countries. Regions with less favorable renewable generation conditions bene t from this remote capacity by importing the respective electricity as power ows through the transmission grid. The resulting intricate pattern of imports and exports represents a challenge for the analysis of system costs on the level of individual countries. Using a tracing technique, we introduce ow-based nodal levelized costs of electricity (LCOE) which allow to incorporate capital and operational costs associated with the usage of generation capacity located outside the respective country under consideration. This concept and a complementary allocation of transmission infrastructure costs is applied to a simpli ed model of an interconnected highly renewable European electricity system. We observe that cooperation between the European countries in a heterogeneous system layout does not only reduce the system-wide LCOE, but also the ow-based nodal LCOEs for every country individually. Keywords: large-scale integration of renewables, system design, renewable energy networks, wind power generation, solar power generation, levelized system cost of electricity, Europe 1. Introduction A future sustainable electricity system will strongly depend on the e cient in- tegration of high shares of renewable power generation (see for instance the Energy Roadmap 2050 from the European Commission 1 ). In particular, wind Email addresses: bo eng.au.dk (Bo Tranberg), leon schwenk-nebbe.com (Leon J. Schwenk-Nebbe), schaefer eng.au.dk (Mirko Sch afer), hoersch fias.uni-frankfurt.de (Jonas H orsch), greiner eng.au.dk (Martin Greiner) 1Present address: rsted, Teknikerbyen 25, 2830 Virum, Denmark Preprint submitted to Elsevier February 21, 2018arXiv:1801.10451v2 physics.soc-ph 20 Feb 2018 and solar technologies have become increasingly cost competitive 2 and show considerable expansion potential for large-scale deployment 3, 4 . The weather- dependent resource quality and thus cost e ciency of these variable renewable energy sources (VRES) is unevenly distributed across the European continent. An e cient placement of generation capacity will result in a heterogeneous layout, in which locations with favorable conditions will be net exporters of electricity, whereas regions with less favorable conditions import electricity as power ows through the transmission grid. In 5 this cost bene t of a heteroge- neous system layout has been shown for a simpli ed model of a highly renewable European electricity system. The in uence of di erent levels of transmission ca- pacity expansion for the total cost and the system layout has been studied in 6 . Despite its e ciency in terms of reducing global system costs, such a hetero- geneous layout represents a political and economic challenge. Countries with favorable weather conditions will get assigned disproportionally high shares of generation capacity, which to a large degree will be exported and serve electricity consumption abroad. The associated investment costs thus must be incentivized by appropriate remuneration schemes, which in today s system are largely based on electricity markets complemented with di erent kinds of state-regulated sup- port schemes (see 7 for a general introduction into Power System Economics). Nevertheless, as discussed in 8 , the increasing share of uctuating renewable generation represents a challenge for the design of future market rules. A deeper understanding of the nodal structure of system costs might provide guidance to the development of a suitable regulatory framework, which supports the transi- tion towards an e cient sustainable system design by providing a fair allocation of costs and target-oriented incentives for investors. Using the ow tracing technique based on average participation introduced in 9 and 10 , we derive nodal levelized costs of electricity (LCOE) which factor in the share of the system-wide operational and capital costs associated with the electricity consumption (load) of the individual nodes. We apply this formalism to a coarse-grained model of the European electricity system with a high share of renewable generation, which has been studied in 5 . This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 describes the simpli ed model of the European electricity network and presents the respective infrastructure measures, cost modelling and heterogeneous renewable capacity layouts. Fur- thermore, the method of ow tracing is reviewed, which represents the corner- stone of the ow-based nodal cost allocation de ned in Section 3. In Section 4 the application of this method is discussed for di erent renewable generation layouts and transmission cost allocation schemes. The paper concludes with a discussion of the results and an outlook to future research. 2. Modelling and Methods 2.1. The electricity network In this study we use a simpli ed model of the European electricity network, shown in Figure 1. Each node represents an aggregated country and each link represents the coarse-grained interconnector transmission capacity between the countries, distinguishing between AC lines and HVDC lines. The size of the nodes visualizes the average load. Wind and solar PV generation constitute the 2 BE FR BGBAHRDE HUFI DK NL PTNO LV LT LU ROPL CH GREE ITCZ ATIE ESRSSK SISE GB 50 GW 25 GW 0 GWFigure 1: The simpli ed European electricity system. The size of the nodes shows the average load of the respective countries. AC lines are colored red and DC lines are colored green. nodal VRES power generation: GR n(t) GW n(t) GS n(t): (1) As described in 5 the VRES generation is modeled using eight years of hourly weather data from 2000 to 2007 with a spatial resolution of 50 50km2(see 11 and 12 for details). The
__label__energy	1 Unlocking the Potential: A Novel Tool for Assessing Untapped Micro -Pumped Hydro Energy Storage Systems in Michigan Sharaf K. Magableh , Xuesong Wang , Oraib Dawaghreh , Caisheng Wang Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , Wayne State University , Detroit, United States Abstract This study presents an innovative tool designed to unlock the potential of Michigan s lakes and dams for applications such as water resource management and renewable energy generation. Given Michigan s relatively flat landscape, the focus is on systems that could serve as micro -hydro energy storage solutions. To ensure accuracy and reliability, the tool incorporates extensive data gathered from authorized sources, covering more than 420 water facilities and potential reservoirs in the state. These data are used as part of a case study to evaluate the tool s capabilities. Key parameters assessed include horizontal and vertical distances (head), volume, and the total storage capacity of each reservoir, measured in GWh. By analyzing these factors, the tool determines the suitability of various lakes and dams for hydroelectric power generation, and other uses based on the horizontal and vertical threshold distances. Its robust assessment framework integrates these metrics to comprehensively evaluate each site s potential. The tool s friendly interface and advanced data visualization features make the findings easy to interpret, facilitating optimal resource utilization and informed decision -making for state authorities. Hence , this tool represents a meaningful advancement in managing Michigan s water resources sustainably, promoting environmental ly friendly practices , and supporting economic development . Index terms Data -driven resource management , hydroelectric and Storage potential , Resource management , Strategic planning tool, Sustainable Water -Energy nexus , Sustainable development . NOMENCLATURE Abbreviations ESS Energy Storage System IEA International Energy Agency LR Lower Reservoir PSH Pumped Storage Hydropower RER Renewable Energy Resource UR Upper Reservoir Symbols 𝐸𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 Total Energy (𝐽𝑜𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑠 ) 𝐸𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 Potential energy Storage (𝑘𝑊ℎ) 𝑉 Volume of water reservoir ( 𝑚3) 𝜌 Density of water, typically 1000 (𝑘𝑔 𝑚3) g Acceleration due to gravity, typically 9.81 (𝑚 𝑠2) ℎ Vertical elevation (head) between UR and LR ( 𝑚) 𝑊𝑈𝑅 Average width of the UR (𝑚) 𝐻𝑈𝑅 Average height of the UR (𝑚) 𝐿𝑈𝑅 Average length of the UR (𝑚) I. INTRODUCTION Renewable energy resources (RERs) will continue to play their role in energy generation for sustainability . However, their overall development and implementation also face Sharaf K. Magableh , Xuesong Wang, Oraib Dawaghreh, and Caisheng Wang are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , Wayne State University, Detroit, USA (e -mail: sharaf.magableh wayne.edu, xswang wayne.edu, oraib.dawaghreh wayne.edu , cwang wayne.edu ). inconsistent availability and intermittent operability as major barriers to their widespread applications . To overcome these challenges, energy storage systems (ESSs) have been introduced to balance the varying energy generation with demand 1 . ESSs store excess energy generated during periods of surplus and release it when demand exceeds generation, ensuring a swift response 2 . Roughly two -thirds of annual global power capacity additions come from solar and wind energy, while pumped storage hydropower (PSH) makes up around 96 of the global storage power capacity and 99 of the stored energy volume 3 . The rest of the electricity storage market is primarily occupied by batteries, such as home and electric vehicle batteries, which are more favorite compared to PSH for short -term storage needs, ranging from minutes to hours. However, PSH remains more cost-effective for large -scale energy storage projects lasting several hours to weeks 4 . Most existing PSH facilities are located along rivers and are used in conjunction with hydroelectric generation. During periods of low energy demand, water is pumped from a lower reservoir (LR) to an upper one, storing the energy for later use 5 . Interest is growing in closed -loop off -river PSH systems, where water is circulated between two closely spaced small reservoirs located away from natural waterways. These systems offer vast storage opportunities for the future 6 . Over the past ten years, literature reviews show that several studies on hybrid RERs have been conducted worldwide. This includes diverse assessments of ESSs like PSH. For instance, the authors in 1 reviewed several energy storage technologies (ESTs) and provided a n overview of key performance metrics for major energy storage options. These metrics include efficiency, energy capacity and density, capital investment costs, lifespan, and self -discharge. Their findings suggest that selecting the appropriate storage system depends on specific needs, such as enhancing overall energy capacity and maintaining energy security . PSH has garnered special interest globally in recent years. The authors in 7 present ed a comprehensive review of PSH systems, covering the basic principles, design considerations, and several configurations of PSH systems, including open and closed loops and hybrid designs. The paper provides insights into the challenges posed by PSH systems, highlighting their potential to contribute significantly to a sustainable and dependable energy future. To show the significance of ESS, the researchers in 8 propose d a grid -connected double storage system comprising PSH and batteries powered by solar PV and wind energy. In this hybrid setup, batteries capture surplus RERs that PSH cannot store and cater to loads beyond the water turbine s capacity. The system s energy management strategy accounts for situations where both PSH and batteries are charging by prioritizing battery storage, thus preventing renewable energy curtailment. If both storage systems reach their charging limits, excess energy can be fed 2 into the national grid. Findings reveal a 22.2 reduction in electricity costs by coupling batteries with PSH, with minimal reliance on the national grid for energy exchange. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) developed a tool for assessing PSH supply curves across the U.S 9 . This interactive map and geospatial dataset provide critical insights into PSH potential by quantifying the quantity, and cost of PSH resources at various sites. Users can explore sites with different storage durations, dam heights, and head heights, including repurposed open -pit mines and existing reservoirs, making this tool a
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Plug and Play Distributed Control of Clustered Energy Hub Networks Varsha N. Behrunania,b, , Cara Koepelea,b, , Jared Millera,c, Ahmed Aboudoniaa, Philipp Heerb, Roy S. Smitha, John Lygerosa aAutomatic Control Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Z urich, Switzerland bUrban Energy Systems Laboratory, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology (Empa), D ubendorf, Switzerland cChair of Mathematical Systems Theory, Department of Mathematics, University of Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany Abstract The transition to renewable energy is driving the rise of distributed multi-energy systems, in which individual energy hubs and prosumers (e.g., homes, industrial campuses) generate, store, and trade energy. Economic Model Predictive Control (MPC) schemes are widely used to optimize operation of energy hubs by e fficiently dispatching resources and minimizing costs while ensuring operational constraints are met. Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading among hubs enhances network e fficiency and reduces costs but also increases computational and privacy challenges, especially as the network scales. Additionally, current distributed control techniques require global recomputation whenever the network topology changes, limiting scalability. To address these challenges, we propose a clustering-based P2P trading framework that enables plug-and-play operation, allowing energy hubs to seamlessly join or leave without requiring network-wide controller updates. The impact is restricted to the hubs within the a ffected cluster. The energy trading problem is formulated as a bi-level bargaining game, where inter-cluster trading commitments are determined at the cluster level, while energy dispatch and cost-sharing among hubs within a cluster are refined at the hub level. Both levels are solved in a distributed manner using ADMM, ensuring computational feasibility and privacy preservation. Moreover, we develop plug-and-play procedures to handle dynamic topology changes at both the hub and cluster levels, minimizing disruptions across the network. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed bi-level framework reduces operational costs, and enables scalable energy management under plug-and-play operation. Keywords: Distributed control, model predictive control, energy hubs, ADMM, consensus algorithm, multi horizon MPC 1. Introduction With the influx of distributed energy resources (DERs) such as rooftop solar PV , electric batteries, and thermal storage, in- dividual consumers can now generate and store energy in addi- tion to purchase power from the grid. The role of the consumer is thus shifting to a prosumer, where individual users can both produce and consume energy. The presence of prosumers is one factor marking the shift of the energy grid from a centralized, top-down architecture (Kristov et al., 2016) to a distributed ar- chitecture with behind-the-meter generation. Planning and con- trol for distributed energy generation introduces new coordi- nation challenges between increasingly interconnected energy sources and loads that were not previously present in the cen- tralized generation model. The collection of loads, storage systems, and generation technologies present at an individual site can be described as an energy hub (Geidl and Andersson, 2006). The energy hub manages its devices to fulfill the time-varying demands across multiple energy carriers. This joint hub-focused management allows for more flexible and e fficient operation compared to op- erating each device independently. Advanced algorithms such as optimal power flow (Almassalkhi and Hiskens, 2011), (Geng et al., 2020) and Model Predictive Control (MPC) (Arnold et al., These authors contributed equally to the work.2009), (Chandan and Alleyne, 2014) have been explored as control strategies for single energy hubs. These algorithms can consider multiple factors such as the cost of operation, carbon intensity, obedience of thermal comfort constraints, and fidelity to other structural constraints. Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading between di fferent energy hubs can further reduce the individual or aggregate cost of op- eration for energy hubs compared to the decentralized setting of no trading. Centralized MPC can be used to optimize the operation and trading of an entire energy hub network. Sev- eral centralized methods have been proposed in the literature, formulating the energy hub network problem as an optimiza- tion task (Smith et al., 2022) to achieve specific objectives such as cost reduction, environmental benefits, and demand response La Scala et al. (2014); Yang et al. (2016); Marouf- mashat et al. (2015). Though this strategy can minimize overall network costs, it su ffers from poor scalability as the network size increases or changes, inhibiting the use of centralized al- gorithms in real-time operation. Advanced algorithms must be used to address these computational challenges Moeini-Aghtaie et al. (2014). Centralized approaches also compromise privacy, as they require detailed per-agent system and state information for policy computation. Furthermore, centralized control sys- tems are more susceptible to failure, as a single control fail- ure can lead to the collapse of the entire system. Finally, these control systems are not well-suited for networks with varying Preprint submitted to Elsevier April 9, 2025arXiv:2504.06179v1 eess.SY 8 Apr 2025 topologies, as even a small change in the network configuration necessitates the redesign of the entire control system. To tackle the aforementioned problems, multiple non- centralized MPC schemes have been developed over the years (Scattolini, 2009; Negenborn and Maestre, 2014). These schemes are based on the idea of decomposing the system into several smaller subsystems and designing a local controller for each of these subsystems. Contrary to decentralized MPC, dis- tributed MPC approaches allow the local controller of each sub- system to communicate with the local controllers of some or all other subsystems in the network. These non-centralized schemes are usually characterized by their scalability, privacy and robustness against failure. In the context of energy hubs, distributed MPC can be used to split the energy hub optimiza- tion into per-hub optimization problems. The agents locally solve their own problem, exchange state information or dual variables with other agents, and repeat this process until con- vergence of a control policy is achieved. Specific optimiza- tion methods for distributed energy hub MPC include ADMM (Behrunani et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2020), proximal atomic co- ordination with Nesterov acceleration (Ferro et al., 2022) and dual-regularized fast dual forward-backward splitting (Pelz- mann, 2021). However, these methods do not guarantee that all agents will individually profit from this arrangement, which could motivate some hubs to leave the network. The trading
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Open Access Review Review on Monit oring, Operation and Maint enance o f Smar t Offshor e Wind F arms by Lei K ou , Yang Li , Fangfang Zhang , Xiaodong Gong , Yinghong Hu , Quande Y uan and Wende K e Institut e of Oceanographic Instrumentation, Qilu Univ ersity o f Technology (Shandong Academy o f Sciences), Qingdao 266075, China School o f Electrical Engineering, Nor theast Electric P ower Univ ersity, Jilin City 132012, China School o f Electrical Engineering and Aut omation, Qilu Univ ersity o f Technology (Shandong Academy o f Sciences), Jinan 250353, China Electric P ower Resear ch Institut e, State Grid Jibei Electric P ower Comp any Limit ed, Beijing 100054, China School o f Comput er Technology and Engineering, Changchun Institut e of Technology , Changchun 130012, China Department o f Mechanical and Ener gy Engineering, Souther n Univ ersity o f Science and T echnology , Shenzhen 518055, China Author t o whom corr espondence should be addr essed. Academic Edit ors: Min Xia, T eng Li and Clar ence de Silv a Sensor s 2022 , 22(8), 2822; https: doi.or g 10.3390 s22082822 Receiv ed: 15 Febr uary 2022 Revised: 25 Mar ch 2022 Accept ed: 28 Mar ch 2022 Published: 7 Apr il 2022 (This ar ticle belongs t o the Special Issue Advances in Deep Lear ning for Int elligent Sensing S ystems) Abstract In recent years, with the development of wind energy, the number and scale of wind farms have been developing rapid ly. Since offshor e wind farms have the advantages of stable wind speed, being clean renewable, non-p olluting, and the non-occup ation of cultiv ated land, they have gradually become a new trend in the wind power industr y all over the world. The operation and maint enance of offshor e wind powe has been developing in the direction of digitization and intelligence. It is of great significance to carry ou resear ch on the monit oring, operation, and maint enance of offshor e wind farms, which will be of benefit fo the reduction of the operation and maint enance costs, the improvement of the power generation efficiency improvement of the stability of offshor e wind farm systems, and the building of smar t offshor e wind farms This paper will mainly summarize the monit oring, operation, and maint enance of offshor e wind farms, with particular focus on the following points: monit oring of offshor e wind power engineering and biological and envir onment , the monit oring of power equipment, and the operation and maint enance of smar t offshor e wind farms. Finally , the futur e research challenges in relation to the monit oring, operation, and maint enance of smar t offshor e wind farms are proposed, and the futur e resear ch directions in this field are explor ed especially in marine envir onment monit oring, weather and climat e prediction, intelligent monit oring of powe equipment, and digital platfor ms. Keywords: smar t offshor e wind far m; intelligent monit oring; intelligent operation ; intelligent maint enance ; status monit oring 1. Introduction 1 2 3, 1 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 Download PDF Browse Figures Citation Export Owing to concer ns over the global energy crisis and air pollution, the development and utilization o wind energy, solar energy, and other renewable energy sources have been given increasingly more attention all over the world 1,2,3 . Wind energy is a form of renewable energy with matur e technology that ha developed rapidl y in the past decades 4 . By the end of 2019, the total installed capacity of global offshor e wind power reached 29.1 GW. A repor t on China s ability to power a huge growth in global offshor e wind energy stated that the total instal led capacity of global offshor e wind power will reach over 234 GW by 2030 5 . Comp ared with onshor e wind power, offshor e wind power has the advantages of high wind speed regional climat e stability , and no significant visual impact. Due to the high efficiency of offshor e wind power it is suitable for centralized dev elopment, which is an impor tant dev elopment dir ection for wind pow er 6 . With the growing emphasis on clean energy, the installed capacity of offshor e wind power has been increasing faster than ever. However, due to the particularity of the offshor e wind farm envir onment, offshor e wind farms are usually accomp anied by high temperatur e, high humidity , high salt fog, typhoon, lightning and so on; thus, the probability of power equipment failur e is higher 7 . Meanwhile, the operation and maint enance cost of offshor e wind farms is much higher than that of onshor e wind farms, and the accessibility of offshor e wind farms is poor 8 . Traditi onal operation and maint enance methods are no enough to meet the operation and maint enance requir ements of smar t offshor e wind farms. Smar t offshor e wind farms need to rely on good scientific operation and maint enance strategies, intelligent fault diagnosi and monit oring technology , stable and efficient operation, and the use of maint enance ships and othe advanced equipm ent suppor t. Preventiv e operation and maint enan ce technologies will play an impor tant role in the managem ent of smar t offshore wind farms and also represent the futur e development direction o offshor e wind power operation and maint enance technologies 9 . Therefore, it is of great significance to study the monit oring, operation, and maint enance o f offshor e wind far ms. At present, many scholar s have studied the construction, monit oring, operation, and maint enance o smar t offshor e wind farms 10,11 . Compared with onshor e wind farms, the planning and const ruction requir ements
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Graphical Abstract Modeling the impact of extreme summer drought on conventional and renewable generation capacity: methods and a case study on the Eastern U.S. power system Hang Shuai, Fangxing Li, Jinxiang Zhu, William Jerome Tingen II, Srijib Mukherjee Hydroelectric power plant derating model Thermoelectric power plant with ON cooling derating modelData Collection and Processing Meterological DataHydrological DataGeneration Fleet Data Thermoelectric power plant with RC cooling derating model Combustion turbine derating modelSolar PV derating model Wind turbine derating model StreamflowWater temperatureAir temperatureRelative humidityAmbient pressureSolar irradiationWind speed Available Capacity of Each Generator A comprehensive and systematic framework for assessing the impact on generating capacity in bulk power systems during summer droughts is developed . The proposed approach is applied in the PJM and SERC regions of the United States, encompassing a total of 6,055 at -risk generators. arXiv:2311.07001v1 eess.SY 13 Nov 2023 Highlights Modeling the impact of extreme summer drought on conventional and renewable generation capacity: methods and a case study on the Eastern U.S. power system Hang Shuai, Fangxing Li, Jinxiang Zhu, William Jerome Tingen II, Srijib Mukherjee A systematic summer droughts generating capacity as- sessment framework is developed. Capacity derating models for various generation technolo- gies are presented. The impacts of summer droughts on generating fleet in PJM and SERC are studied. Impact of extreme summer drought on usable capacity of generators is significant. Modeling the impact of extreme summer drought on conventional and renewable generation capacity: methods and a case study on the Eastern U.S. power system Hang Shuaia, Fangxing Lia, Jinxiang Zhub, William Jerome Tingen IIa, Srijib Mukherjeec aDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), The University of Tennessee at Knoxville (UTK), 1520 Middle Drive, Knoxville, 37996, TN, USA bHitachi Energy, 901 Main Campus Drive, Raleigh, 27606, NC, USA cEnergy Science and Technology Directorate, Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), P .O. Box 2008, Oak Ridge, 37831, TN, USA Abstract The United States has witnessed a growing prevalence of droughts in recent years, posing significant challenges to water supplies and power generation. The resulting impacts on power systems, including reduced capacity and the potential for power outages, underscore the need for accurate assessment methods to ensure the reliable operation of the nation s energy infrastructure. A critical step is to evaluate the usable capacity of a regional power system s generation fleet, which is a complex undertaking and requires precise modeling of the e ffects of hydrological and meteorological conditions on diverse generating technologies. This paper proposes a systematic, analytical approach for assessing the impacts of extreme summer drought events on the available capacity of hydro, thermal, and renewable energy generators. More specifically, the systematic framework provides plant-level capacity derating models for hydroelectric, once-through cooling thermoelectric, recirculating cooling thermoelectric, combustion turbine, solar PV , and wind turbine systems. Application of the proposed impact assessment framework to the 2025 generation fleet of the real-world power system in the PJM and SERC regions in the United States yields insightful results. By examining the daily usable capacity of 6,055 at-risk generators throughout the study region, we find out that in the event of the recurrence of the 2007 southeastern summer drought event in the near future, the usable capacity of all at-risk power plants may experience a substantial decrease compared to a typical summer, falling within the range of 71 to 81 . The sensitivity analysis reveals that the usable capacity of the generation fleet would experience a more pronounced decline under increasingly severe summer drought conditions. The findings of this study o ffer valuable insights, enabling stakeholders of the grid to enhance the resilience of power systems against the potentially devastating e ffects of extreme drought events in the future. Keywords: Power system resilience, drought, generating capacity, extreme weather, climate change PACS: 0000, 1111 2000 MSC: 0000, 1111 1. Introduction 1.1. Background Extreme weather events (such as drought 1, 2, 3 and hurri- can 4, 5 ) worldwide have exerted substantial and far-reaching effects on agriculture, water resources, energy system, and the overall well-being of nations. An illustrative case is the se- vere and enduring drought that a fflicted California in the years 2012-2017, which left an indelible impact on the state s ecosys- tems and imposed water restrictions in several regions 6 . This past summer, from July 3, 2023, to July 7, 2023, witnessed an extraordinary meteorological event with the highest global temperature ever recorded 7 . On July 4, 2023, the average worldwide temperature soared to 17.18 C (62.9 F), surpass- ing the previous record of 17.01 C (62.6 F) established just a day earlier. Emerging research indicates an alarming trend 8 : the projected tenfold intensification of compound extreme heat and drought events on a global scale. This escalation is attributed to the synergistic interplay between rising tempera- tures and declining terrestrial water storage, particularly underthe most extreme emission scenario. The electric power sec- tor in the United States heavily depends on cooling water to ensure reliable and uninterrupted operation 9, 10 . However, the occurrence of extreme summer conditions poses significant challenges to the reliability and resiliency of power systems 11, 12, 13, 14 . In light of the formidable challenges, investi- gating impact of extreme drought on power systems is essential in equipping stakeholders with the insights and preparedness required to navigate the complex landscape of climate-induced extreme drought events that may loom in our future. 1.2. Previous work on generator capacity derating approaches Droughts can vary in intensity and duration, but they often result in water shortages and impact the normal operation of power systems. For example, the historic drought that swept across much of the western United States in 2021 resulted in a significant 48 decline in hydropower generation compared to the 10-year average 15 . In that year, hydroelectric power con- tributed substantially, accounting for 31.5 of the total renew- able electricity generation and constituting 6.3 of the over- Preprint submitted to November 14, 2023 all electricity production in the United States 16 . The po- tential consequences of severe drought
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	Generic approach for the modelin g of liquefied thermochemical products and biomass heat of formation. Case study: HTL biocrude, Pyrolysis oil and assessment of energy req uirements E.M. Lozano, T.H. Ped ersen, L.A. Rosendahl 0F0F1 Department of Energy Technology , Aalborg University, Pontoppida nstræde 111, 9220 Aalborg Øst, Denmark Abstract: A generic approach is proposed f or the estimation of advanced biocrudes properties from liquefied biomass and the enthalpy of formation of biomass feedstocks applicable to the modeling o f biomass conversion processes wh ere the exact stoichiometry an d kinetics are unknown,such as py rolysis, solvolysis and hydrothe rmal liquefaction (HTL) . The ent halpy of formation of the biom ass is estimated through a direct corre lation based on ultimate and pr oximate analysis, whose parameters can easily be fitted with experimental data available fro m sources such as the Phillys da tabase for different biomass types and implemented in process s imulators such as Aspen Plus . For the biocrude modeling, a multi-objecti ve optimization model is proposed that re fines the selection of model compounds to match measured bulk thermochemical and physical pr operties. Parameter fitting and multi-objective optimization we re both performed in Matlab and the codes are available in the su pplementary material. As a case study, the optimization model w as applied to two different oils obt ained via HTL and pyrolysis of woody biomass. The first case was further studied in order to estimate the impact of the proposed models in the energy requirements. T he process was implemented in As pen Plus but the methodology i s applicable to other simulation to ols. The results show that the methods for estimating enthalpies of formation have a high imp act on the energy balance and consequently the models developed allow a more accurate estimat ion of the energy requirement in the rea ctor. This is a key element in making accurate heat integration and t echno-economic analyses of thermoc hemical conversion processes. Keywords: modeling, biomass, biofuels, H TL, pyrolysis, model compounds, h eat of formation, energy ba lance, Matlab, Aspen Plus 1. INTRODUCTION Thermochemical conversion of bio mass comprises different proces ses by which heat is used to tran sform biomass ma terial into ga s, liquid and or solid fuels. Due to their feedstock flexibility a nd the possibility to obtain a wide range of products, thermoch emical routes have gained increasing interest in recent years, motivated by t he need to develop more sustainable, carbon neutral processes a nd products in the transition from linear to circular economies. G asification, pyrolysis, carboniza tion, torrefaction and hydroth ermal liquefaction (HTL) are examples of this. Biomass-to-X Thermochemical conversion processBiomass Liquid Solid HeatGas Fuel gas Heat electricity Transport fuels Heating oil Charcoal Commercial solid products Figure 1 Possible products of thermochemical conversion of biom ass Compared to the biochemical routes, thermochemical processes ar e performed at relatively high temperatures and or pressures an d consequently, efficient heat integration is crucial to favor th e economics of the process. From basic thermodynamics, the ener gy balance at reaction conditions (Hess s law) can be expressed as: Q H ୶୬ , H ,୮ ୭ , H , ୟୡ୲ , J (1) Where H ,୧ represents the total enthalpy in J for each reactant and pro duct. For solid and liquid components -such as biomass and biocrude oils- the effect of pressure in the enthalpy change is commonly neglected and the to tal enthalpy at reaction conditio ns is given by the summation of the formatio n enthalpy and sensible enthalp y: h ,୧ ሺ ሻ h ,୧ C୮,୧ dT బ J kg (2) 1 Corresponding author. E-mail addr ess: lar et.aau.dk (L.A. Rosen dahl). Where h ,୧ is the specific standard enthalpy of formation of component i in J kg , C୮,୧ is the specific heat capacity in J kgK , T is the reaction temperature in K , and T 0 is the standard tem perature (298.15 K). Even though the standard enthalpy of formation is commonly repo rted in literature for pure com ponents and the calculation is straightforward for mixtures w ith well-defined composition, thi s is non-trivial in the case of complex streams comprising mult iple components such as biom ass and biocrude oils. The prevalent method that has b een reported in literature to es timate heat of formation of biomass is from its higher heating value (HHV), or lower heating value (L HV) in some cases. This approac h is based on the combustion reac tion (eq. 3) and has been wide ly used in the modeling of different processes such as torrefactio n (Bates Ghoniem, 2013), gasifica tion and pyrolysis (La Ville tta, Costa, Massarottia, 2017) (Baratieri, Baggio, Fiori, Grigia nte, 2008). The complete combustion of biomass (represented as C H OஒNஓSஔ in eq. 3) can be expressed as: C H OஒNஓSஔ ൬φ α 4 β 2 γ δ൰O ଶ φ C O ଶ α 2HଶO γNO ଶ δSOଶ (3) Applying the energy balance (eq. 1): HHV ΔH ୶୬ Δ h ,ୠ୧୭୫ୟୱୱ ൬φ α 4 β 2 γ δ൰Δ h మ φΔ h మ α 2Δ h మ δΔ h మ γΔ h మ ሾJሿ (4) Eq. 4 can be rewritten in terms of the mass fractions of C,H,O, N,S in the biomass ( ݓ ) obtained exper imentally from ultimate analysis and the known standard enthalpie s of formation of the combustio n products (water in liquid phase when the HHV is used). The composition, HHV and heat of form ation must be in the same basi s (dry (d) or dry ash-free (daf) basis). Solving for Δ hୠ୧୭୫ୟୱୱ , ୟ : φ w ୟ MW ;α w ୟ MW ;β w ୟ MW ; γ w ୟ MW ;δ w ୟ MW mol g൨ (5) Δh ,ୠ୧୭୫ୟୱୱ , ୟ HHV ୟ ൫3,278 10ହ w ୟ 1,418 10 w ୟ 9,264 10ସ w ୟ 2,418 10ସ w ୟ ൯ 10ଶ ቂ ୩ ቃ (6) The heat of
__label__energy	Application of DFTB and machine learning to evaluate the stability of biomass intermediates on the Rh(111) surface Chaoyi Chang and Andrew J. Medford School of Chemical Biomolecular Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology E-mail: ajm gatech.edu Abstract Biomass compounds adsorbed on surfaces are challenging to study due to the large number of possible species and adsorption geometries. In this work, possible intermedi- atesoferythrose, glyceraldehyde, glycerolandpropionicacidarestudiedontheRh(111) surface. The intermediates and elementary reactions are generated from ﬁrst 2 recur- sions of a recursive bond-breaking algorithm. These structures are used as the input of an unsupervised Mol2Vec algorithm to generate vector descriptors. A data-driven scheme to classify the reactions is developed and adsorption energies are predicted. The lowest mean absolute error (MAE) of our prediction on adsorption energies is 0.39 eV, andtherelativeorderingofdiﬀerentsurfaceadsorptiongeometriesisrelativelyaccurate. We show that combining geometries from density functional tight-binding (DFTB) cal- culations with energies from machine-learning predictions provides a novel workﬂow for rapidly assessing the stability of various molecular geometries on the Rh(111) surface. Biomass compounds are playing a key role in biorenewable products and are the basis of a sustainable economy. For example, the US Department of Energy has listed the 10 1arXiv:2105.12867v1 cond-mat.mtrl-sci 26 May 2021 top bioreﬁnery products with the highest potential impact.1Selective conversion between those products and other small molecule products are important if biomass compounds are to form the basis of a sustainable economy. Rh is a commonly-used transition metal catalyst for conversion of biomass compounds and has been the subject of numerous experimental studies. For example, Rh catalysts have been used for succinic acid conversion to fumaric acid,2hydrogenolysis of furfural to 1,2-pentanediol3and production of C1 compounds from ethanol.4 6However, there have been relatively few systematic computational studies of biomass intermediates on Rh surfaces.7Density functional theory (DFT) is the most com- mon theory used to study the adsorption and reaction of biomass compounds.8 10However, complex molecules have multiple binding sites and various geometries, and DFT calculations of larger molecules are expensive and require signiﬁcant computational eﬀort to converge. Thus, previous studies often utilize empirical and machine learning (ML) methods to re- late reaction properties of biomass molecules or intermediates to their structures, physical properties and even experimental conditions.9,11 13Most of these ML methods could reach a mean absolute error of adsorption energies transition state energies within 0.4 eV,7,13,14 with some examples of predictions as accurate as 0.2 eV using a combination of physical and structural features along with feature selection methods.12,15 As mentioned previously, a key challenge with biomass molecules is their complexity, and model compounds are often used to simplify systems of interest. A model compound refers to a relatively small molecule (typically fewer than 8 heavy atoms) that can be used for studying a larger compounds with similar chemical properties and functional groups. Previous experimental studies showed that the reaction pathway of glyceraldehyde arrowrighttophalf arrowleftbothalf glycerol is similar to linearglucose arrowrighttophalf arrowleftbothalf sorbitol8,10,16,17and that propionic acid ketonization is similar to larger carboxylic acid ketonization on Rh surfaces.9,18While model compounds arecommonlyused, theyaretypicallyidentiﬁedbyheuristicsandintuition. However, adata- driven strategy for systematic identiﬁcation of model compounds was proposed in a prior study by the authors.19It was pointed out that glycerol, glyceraldehyde, propionic acid, 2 and erythrose are good model compounds to study larger molecules like sorbitol and linear- structured glucose. This makes these four molecules a key starting point for computational and experimental studies seeking a more general understanding of the catalytic conversion of biomass derivatives on solid surfaces. In this study, we extend the previously-developed embedding models of gas-phase for- mation energies19to adsorbed surface intermediates on the Rh(111) surface. A total of 171 intermediates from the ﬁrst 2 bond-breaking recursions of erythrose, glyceraldehyde, glyc- erol and propionic acid are studied. Mol2Vec is used for generating vector descriptors and 83 clusters based on 6 reaction types (C-C, C-O, O-H, C-H, C-M, O-M) are obtained from single-group radius zero (R0) Mol2Vec descriptors. Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and partial least squares (PLS) are used for dimensional reduction of two- and three-group radius one (R1) Mol2Vec descriptors, providing low-dimensional vector descriptors for each adsorbate. These vectors are combined with a linear least-squares regression model, yielding a mean absolute errors (MAE) as low as 0.39 eV. Finally, pre-optimization via density- functional tight binding (DFTB) is combined with our embedding models to establish a workﬂow for rapidly identifying stable adsorption geometries. We show that this workﬂow identiﬁes 20 new lowest-energy geometries for 171 adsorbates studied, indicating that sys- tematic approaches for identifying the lowest-energy structures of large adsorbed molecules are a necessary addition to the tool set of computational catalysis. First, we establish an approach to assign detailed classes for each bond type of ad- sorbed biomass intermediates, similar to the previously-developed approach for gas-phase molecules.19Mol2Vec20is used for generating vector descriptors for intermediates and reac- tions with 200 dimensions in R0 and R1.19The traditional extended-connectivity ﬁngerprint (ECFP) is modiﬁed to include surrounding heavy atom number, surrounding hydrogen atom number, valence, electric negativity and mass as invariants for atoms contained in a struc- ture. Metal atoms are still considered to be heavy atoms but all the other properties are considered as NaN so that metal atoms are a general rather than speciﬁc type (e.g. Rh is 3 indistinguishable from any other metal). An algorithm (see SI) to add metal atoms to un- saturated C, O atoms one-at-a-time is applied to the 171 intermediates generated from the ﬁrst 2 bond-breaking recursions of erythrose, glyceraldehyde, glycerol and propionic acid, and additional structures are generated by DFTB minima hopping calculations (see below), yielding a total of 2,498 adsorbed structures. The adsorbed structures are combined with 91,098 gas-phase species, resulting in a total of 93,569 structures that are used as the corpus for training the Mol2Vec model (see SI for details). We also utilize 6 basic types of reactions for visualization and checking intuition. These 6 types include 4 types of intra-adsorbate reactions, C-C (C C and C-C), C-H, C-O (C O and C-O), OH, and 2 types of elemen- tary reactions with metal atoms, C-M (C-Metal), O-M (O-Metal). The
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Charged Momentum: Electric Vehicle Surge in India s 2023 Landscape Rahul Wagh1 1Student, Dept. Of Mechanical Engineering, Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, Pune, Maharashtra , India --------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------- Abstract - Electric vehicles (EVs) have emerged as a transformative force in India s transportation sector, offeri ng a sustainable solution to the country s growing energy and environmental challenges. Against the backdrop of rapid urbanization, rising pollution levels, and the need for energy security, EVs have gained traction as a viable alternative to traditional i nternal combustion engine vehicles. This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of the electric vehicle market in India, focusing particularly on the landscape of 2023. It emphasizes key aspects such as the 2023 scenario of EV adoption, th e role of indige nous manufacturers, dominant players shaping the market, and the influence of government policies and initiatives, including the FAME I and II schemes. Furthermore, the paper delves into EV sales data for the fiscal year 2023, offering insights into market trends and consumer preferences. By elucidating the current state of EVs in India, this paper aims to contribute to a deeper understanding of the country s transition towards sustainable mobility and its implications fo r energy, environment, and economy. Key Words : sustainable transportation, Electric Vehicles (EVs), FAME I and II, government policies. INTRODUCTION As of the fiscal year 2023, India has witnessed a substantial surge in cumulative Electric Vehicle (EV) sales, surpassed the 1 million mark in 2023 for the first time. The Society of Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles reports a noteworthy growth rate of 37.5 , highlighting the increasing popularity of electric vehicles in the country. Despite an initial ambitiou s target of achievi ng 100 EV adoption by 2030, the government has pragmatically revised this goal to 30 , showcasing a responsive approach to ground realities 1 . India s burgeoning transportation sector grapples with a significant gap between domestic crude oil production and consumption, as approximately 70 of its oil needs are met through imports 2 . This dependence poses environmental challenges, with a typical passenger vehicle contributing 4.7 metric tons of carbon emissions annually due to fossil fuel combustion 3 . In response, the Indian government envisions a strategic transition to electric vehicle production. This shift aims to substantially reduce the oil bill by US 60 billion and target a 37 reduction in emissions, fostering a decrease in reliance on fuel i mports. Positioned as a protective measure against vulnerability to crude prices and currency fluctuations 4 This transition is supported by a comprehensive array of government policies, including incentives, subsidies, and regulatory frameworks. The exploration of the multifaceted landscape of EV adoption in India extends to shedding light on the challenges faced by the electric vehicle industry, spanning infrastructural gaps to consumer concerns. Furthermore, the analysis delves into scrutinizing manufacturing trends and dissecting market dynamics, offering a comprehensive understanding of the factors influencing industry growth. Chart -1: Year to Year Rate of Increasing in EV S 2023 SCENARIO OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES IN INDIA The current landscape of electric vehicles (EVs) in India reflects a notable surge in growth and an evolving market. A pivotal study conducted by the Ola Mobility Institute in 2019 emphasized that achieving the central government s ambitious e -mobility targets for 2030 hinges on incentivizing EV adoption beyond the upfront purchase cost. The Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), encompassing direct and indirect expenses related to acquiring, operating, and maintaining EVs, remains a critical factor. Presently, the TCO for electric vehicles is comparatively higher due to various overheads, particularly given the nascent state of charging infrastructure in the country 6 . In the past year, the EV market has witnessed remarkable expansion, with a staggering 210 year -over-year increase. Notably, 999,949 EVs were sold in CY2022, a substantial rise from the 322,871 units in CY2021. The growth is predominantly attributed to the two - and three -wheeler segments, often considered the close to the bottom peaches of the EV busi ness due to their affordability. This affordability factor positions them as the primary drivers of EV sales in the Indian market. Chart -2: Growth of EV S till 2023 Based on the findings of the 2023 Economic Survey, the domestic electric vehicle sector in India is forecasted to undergo a remarkable Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 94.4 from 2022 to 2030. This growth trajectory is anticipated to culminate in 10 million EV sales annually by 2030, showcasing a substantial shift towards electric mobility. Furthermore, the sector is projected to generate an estimated 50 million direct and indirect jobs, indicating a significant economic impact on the nation s workforce. EV SALES FY2023 E2W Market Share FY2023 The remarkable surge in el ectric vehicle (EV) sales has been primarily propelled by the electric two -wheelers (E2W) and three -wheelers (E3W) categories, jointly contributing to approximately 96 of the overall EV sales in the fiscal year. Notably, the E2W segment, known for its aff ordability, demonstrated robust growth, registering a substantial increase of 188 in total sales from 2,69,138 units in FY2022 to an impressive 7,74,614 units in FY2023. In this dynamic market, Ola Electric emerged as a frontrunner with an outstanding sal es figure exceeding 1,50,000 units, followed closely by Hero Electric, which achieved remarkable sales of over 97,000 units in FY2023. Other key players such as Okinawa, TVS Motor, and Ampere Vehicles also made significant contributions, solidifying the ov erall success and dominance of the E2W segment in the electric vehicle landscape. Chart -3: Key Players Registered E2W Sales (FY2023) - (100 7,82,389 Units) E3W Market Share FY2023 In the electric three -wheeler (E3W) category, the cumulative sales for FY2023 reached an impressive 4,07,099 units, marking a substantial growth compared to the 1,79,706 units recorded in FY2022. This notable year -on-year increase amounted to a robust 127 surge in sales. The landscape of E3Ws in the Indi an market is characterized by diversity, and among the market leaders, Mahindra emerged at the forefront with sales reaching 35,675 units.
__label__energy	Open-data based carbon emission intensity signals for electricity generation in European countries top down vs. bottom up approach Jan Frederick Unnewehra, , Anke Weidlicha, Leonhard Gfüllnera, Mirko Schäfera aINATECH, University of Freiburg, 79110, Germany Abstract Dynamic grid emission factors provide a temporally resolved signal about the carbon intensity of electricity generation in the power system. Since actual carbon dioxide emission measurements are usually lacking, such a signal must be derived from system-speciﬁc emission factors combined with power generation time series. We present a bottom-up method that allows deriving per country and per technology emission factors for European countries based on plant speciﬁc power generation time series and reported emissions from the European emissions trading mechanism. We have matched, 595 fossil generation units and their respective annual emissions. In 2018, these power plants supplied 717 TWh of electricity to the grid, representing approximately 50 of power generation from fossil fuels. Based on this dataset, 42 individual technology and country-speciﬁc emission factors are derived. The resulting values for historical per country carbon intensity of electricity generation are compared with corresponding results from a top-down approach, which uses statistical data on emissions and power generation on national scales. All calculations are based on publicly available data, such that the analysis is transparent and the method can be replicated, adjusted and expanded in a ﬂexible way. Keywords: Emission factors, Carbon intensity signals, Open energy data 1. Introduction Decarbonizing the power sector plays a key role in Europe s ambition to be the ﬁrst climate-neutral continent by 2050 1, 2 . For the required reduction of carbon dioxide emissions in the electricity system, it is crucial to make detailed and transpar- ent emission data available to consumers, regulators, and other stakeholders 3 . Regulators, for instance, must track the av- erage emission intensity of the electricity mix in their domain to monitor the fulﬁllment of given climate targets. Meanwhile, dynamic grid electricity emission measures with a high tempo- ral resolution provide a signal for smart energy systems with storage or demand side ﬂexibility. Such systems, ranging from data centers or urban districts to charging networks for elec- tric vehicles, rely on dynamic grid electricity emission signals to optimize their operational schedule aiming for a minimum carbon footprint 4 7 . Since actual comprehensive emission measurements are not yet available 8 , the development of emissions in the power sector is typically tracked through the calculation of total emis- sions based on emission factors (EFs). The EF is the quotient that relates the amount of a pollutant (e.g., carbon dioxide emis- sions) released into the atmosphere to an activity (e.g., produc- tion of one MWh of electricity) associated with the release of that pollutant 9 . Corresponding author Email address: jan.frederick.unnewehr inatech.uni-freiburg.de (Jan Frederick Unnewehr)One of the most prominent applications is the emission de- termination for reporting emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 10 . Under this convention, all participating countries must prepare and submit a National Inventory Report for their greenhouse gas emissions based on one of three methodological approaches. Tier 1 uses default EFs provided in the IPCC guidelines. The method can be combined with spatially explicit activity data from remote sensing, for example satellite data. Tier 2 generally uses the same methodological approach as tier 1, but applies EFs that are country speciﬁc. Country-speciﬁc EFs are those that are more appropriate for the climate regions and sys- tems used in that country. At tier 3, more complex methods, including measurements and analytical models to address na- tional circumstances are used 11 . In life-cycle assessments (LCA), similar approaches are used for assessing the carbon intensity of energy and material inputs to a product, process or service. In LCA, it is common to use an annual mean value that refers to the average emissions that are caused by the production of one MWh of ﬁnal energy 12 . The corresponding calculations are usually based on the energy con- version processes of representative power plants, from which emissions for speciﬁc technologies in one or more countries are derived. Generally, this approach does not adequately represent the variability of EFs in the generation ﬂeet. As a result, it is dif- ﬁcult to compare the resulting emissions of di erent countries 3, 12 . In many studies, this emission value is often denoted as the grid-based carbon intensity (CI) of a given country. In most cases of grid-based CIs, annual emissions are divided by the Preprint submitted to Elsevier January 4, 2022arXiv:2110.07999v2 physics.soc-ph 3 Jan 2022 annual electricity production, which leads to a static average emission value per year. This approach to evaluate emissions from di erent sectors is similar to the tier 2 approach from the IPCC guideline 13, 14 . Several studies have shown that there are signiﬁcant varia- tions in the electricity mix from month to month, and even hour to hour variations within a day 15 . These variations are caused by ﬂuctuations in the contribution of both conventional and re- newable power generation. Consequently, the emissions asso- ciated with the use of electricity also vary across time 16 20 . This shows that reporting schemes based on aggregated emis- sions and power generation are not suitable to provide emission intensity signals on hourly time scales. However, this timely resolved information is crucial for the operation of ﬂexible sys- tems, like charging stations for electric vehicles, heat pumps to data centers, are to be optimized with respect their associated carbon dioxide emissions 7 . The provision of a widely applicable and transparent carbon intensity signal is facilitated by the incorporation of publicly available consistent and consolidated data, as well as the use of a transparent and easy-to-use method for determining CO 2 intensities 3 . Currently, the regulations and scientiﬁc research in the area of energy system analysis often use standard EFs that are neither technology nor country speciﬁc. These standard EFs do not fulﬁll either of the criteria applicability , accuracy and transparency su ciently. Often, the
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	arXiv:2109.09217v2 eess.SY 21 Sep 2021Energy-Efﬁcient Design for IRS-Assisted MEC Networks with NOMA Qun Wang , Fuhui Zhou , Han Hu , Rose Qingyang Hu Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Utah St ate University, Logan, UT, USA College of Electronic and Information Engineering, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanji ng, China Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Wireless Communications, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanji ng, China Emails: claudqunwang ieee.org, zhoufuhui ieee.org, han h njupt.edu.cn, rose.hu usu.edu Abstract Energy-efﬁcient design is of crucial importance in wireless internet of things (IoT) networks. In order to serv e massive users while achieving an energy-efﬁcient operatio n, an intelligent reﬂecting surface (IRS) assisted mobile edge c omputing (MEC) network with non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) i s studied in this paper. The energy efﬁciency (EE) is maximize d by jointly optimizing the ofﬂoading power, local computing fr equency, receiving beamforming, and IRS phase-shift matrix. The pro blem is challenging to solve due to the non-convex fractional obj ective functions and the coupling among the variables. A semideﬁni te programming relaxation (SDR) based alternating algorithm is developed. Simulation results demonstrate that the propos ed design outperforms the benchmark schemes in terms of EE. Applying IRS and NOMA can effectively improve the performan ce of the MEC network. Index Terms Energy efﬁciency, mobile edge computing, intel- ligent reﬂecting surface, non-orthogonal multiple access , beam- forming optimization. I. I NTRODUCTION The launch of ﬁfth-generation (5G) wireless communication networks leads to an explosive increment of internet of thin gs (IoT) devices, which will generate massive data that need to be processed timely either through local or remote computin g facilities. Limited Bandwidth and limited device computat ion capability have gradually become a bottleneck to meet delay requirement for the massive amount of data. Meanwhile, the r e- search on sixth-generation (6G) wireless networks has take n off and has been attracting ever increasing attention from acad emia and industry 1 . Future wireless networks aim for realizin g ultra-high spectrum efﬁciency (SE) and energy efﬁciency (E E), ultra-dense user connectivity, and ultra low latency. EE is critically important in future wireless networks since mas sive energy constrained IoT devices need to be reliably connecte d to support smart city, smart factory, etc. Moreover, it is impe rative to address the ﬁnite computation capacity issue of IoT devic es. Mobile edge computing (MEC) is envisioned as a promising paradigm by exploiting the edge servers that are deployed cl ose to the end-users. In wireless networks, edge nodes, such as base stations and edge routers, can be equipped with high computing and storage capabilities. MEC enables users to ofﬂoad their tasks to edge servers for processing. It is impo rtant to have efﬁcient ofﬂoading in MEC as massive local devicesmay need to ofﬂoad tasks to edge servers for computing. Towards that end, NOMA can be applied to further enhance EE and SE of MEC networks. By exploiting superposition coding at transmitter and successive interference cancell ation (SIC) at receiver, NOMA allows multiple users to share the same bandwidth simultaneously in either power domain or cod e domain to improve spectral usage 4 . Extensive works have formulated EE optimization frameworks and designed energy - efﬁcient resource allocation schemes in NOMA enabled MEC networks 5 - 7 . In order to maximize EE under the delay constraints in MEC, a joint radio and computation resource allocation problem was formulated in 5 , which takes both intra and inter cell interference into consideration. In 6 , the authors propo sed a scheme to maximize the system computation EE of a wire- less power transfer enabled NOMA based MEC network by jointly optimizing the computing frequencies, execution t ime, and transmit power. In 7 , the task ofﬂoading and resource allocation problem in a NOMA assisted MEC network with security and EE was investigated. A dynamic task ofﬂoading and resource allocation algorithm was proposed based on Lyapunov optimization theory. However, complex wireless environment and devices limite d transmit power can render it very challenging for the NOMA based MEC network to achieve high ofﬂoading rate and high EE. IRS recently has emerged as a promising technique to tackle wireless capacity and energy issues. IRS consists of a large number of low-cost passive reﬂecting elements with th e adjustable phase shifts 8 . By properly adjusting the phas e shifts of the elements, the reﬂected signals from various pa ths can be combined coherently to enhance the link achievable ra te at the MEC receiver 9 . Through this, IRS can compensate for the pathloss and fading and allow users to use a relatively lo wer power to achieve a higher data rate. Since IRS does not employ any transmit radio frequency (RF) chains, energy consumpti on solely comes from reﬂective element phase adjustment and is usually very low. It becomes a very promising technology to improve EE in future wireless networks. The following studies have investigated the performance of using IRS with NOMA. In 10 , an IRS-assisted uplink NOMA system was considered to maximize the sum rate of all the users under the individual power constraint. The considered problem requires a joint power control at the use rs and beamforming design at the IRS, and an SDR-based solution has been developed. In 11 , the problem of joint user asso- ciation, subchannel assignment, power allocation, phase s hifts design, and decoding order determination was formulated fo r maximizing the sum-rate for an IRS-assisted NOMA network. In 12 , an EE algorithm was proposed to yield a tradeoff between the rate maximization and power minimization for an IRS-assisted NOMA network. The authors aimed to maximize the system EE by jointly optimizing the transmit beamformin g and the reﬂecting beamforming. It was shown that NOMA can improve EE compared to OMA. Furthermore, recently application of IRS into NOMA-based MEC networks has been studied. In 13 , the authors inves- tigated an IRS-aided MEC system with NOMA. By jointly optimizing the passive phase shifters, the
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Published as a workshop paper at Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning , ICLR 2024 ENABLING CLEAN ENERGY RESILIENCE WITH MACHINE LEARNING -EMPOWERED UNDERGROUND HYDROGEN STORAGE Alvaro Carbonero, Shaowen Mao Mohamed Mehana Los Alamos National Laboratory Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA alvaro.carbonero, shaowen.mao, mzm lanl.gov ABSTRACT To address the urgent challenge of climate change, there is a critical need to tran- sition away from fossil fuels towards sustainable energy systems, with renewable energy sources playing a pivotal role. However, the inherent variability of renew- able energy, without effective storage solutions, often leads to imbalances between energy supply and demand. Underground Hydrogen Storage (UHS) emerges as a promising long-term storage solution to bridge this gap, yet its widespread imple- mentation is impeded by the high computational costs associated with high fidelity UHS simulations. This paper introduces UHS from a data-driven perspective and outlines a roadmap for integrating machine learning into UHS, thereby facilitating the large-scale deployment of UHS. 1 I NTRODUCTION Renewable energy, a key player in combating climate change, is gaining increasing global adoption Energy 2020 (2010); United nations (2015). In 2022, renewables contributed 13.1 to the US s primary energy consumption U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) (2022) and 21.5 to its utility-scale electricity generation. Furthermore, by 2024, countries like Spain, Germany, and Ire- land are expected to generate over 40 of their annual electricity from wind and solar photovoltaics U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) (2023). Despite these strides, renewable energy sources face challenges due to unpredictable variations in atmospheric conditions and geographic limitations, leading to fluctuations in energy supply. Underground hydrogen (H 2) storage (UHS) is emerging as a vital technology for mitigating the intermittency of renewable energy sources Zivar et al. (2021); Tarkowski Uliasz-Misiak (2022). When there s a surplus in renewable energy production, excess electricity is converted into H 2and stored in geological formations. During times of high demand or low renewable energy generation, the stored H 2is then retrieved and utilized to meet energy needs. UHS, unlike batteries typically used for short-term storage Raad et al. (2022), is capable of storing significant amounts of energy over longer periods. This capability is crucial for counteracting seasonal energy fluctuations and maintaining a consistent energy supply year-round. UHS shares similarities with other subsurface applications such as hydrocarbon development Christie Blunt (2001) and geological carbon sequestration (GCS) Moridis et al. (2023); Wen et al. (2023). However, it is distinguished by more complex operational conditions. In hydrocarbon development, the process is typically focused on extraction, while GCS is solely about injection. In contrast, UHS operates on a cyclic basis, incorporating both injection and extraction stages. This complexity in operational conditions introduces greater uncertainty in H 2storage performance. Tra- ditionally, the prediction of UHS performance relies on high-fidelity physics-based reservoir simu- lations Lysyy et al. (2021); Feldmann et al. (2016); Hogeweg et al. (2022); Okoroafor et al. (2023). These simulations accurately predict the H 2movement and pressure changes in geological forma- tions during UHS operations. However, they are extremely computationally intensive, thus delaying the pace of large-scale UHS deployment. To accelerate UHS prediction, turning to surrogate mod- eling via machine learning (ML) offers a promising strategy. 1arXiv:2404.03222v1 cs.LG 4 Apr 2024 Published as a workshop paper at Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning , ICLR 2024 Figure 1: Temporal evolution of the spatial distribution of H 2saturation and reservoir pressure in a 2D UHS simulation. H 2is injected and withdrawn from a central well in a depleted gas reservoir over ten annual cycles comprising a 6-month injection stage followed by a 6-month withdrawal stage. The initial two subfigures (top row) depict the heterogeneous porosity and permeability of the geological formation. Subsequent figures show the H 2saturation and pressure distributions at various time points during UHS operations. Early of a stage refers to two months after its onset, and end of a stage to six months. Porosity is dimensionless; permeability is in millidarcys ( 10 15m2); H2saturation is dimensionless; pressure is in bars ( 105Pa). Currently, there is a knowledge gap in the literature when it comes to developing ML surrogate models for UHS with only two articles on the subject up to our knowledge Mao et al. (2024); Chen et al. (2024). This gap is attributed not only to the fact that UHS is an emerging field but also to the inherent complexity of UHS operational conditions. It is important to note that the knowledge and techniques used in surrogate modeling for GCS do not directly apply to UHS due to its distinct and intricate operational dynamics. In this study, we outline the unique challenges of applying ML to UHS and propose ideas for developing accurate and efficient UHS ML models, supporting risk assessment and storage optimization of future UHS operations. 2 D ATA GENERATION UHS simulations are conducted by solving partial differential equations (PDEs) the details of which can be found in Appendix A. While data for these simulations can be generated using reservoir sim- ulators with specific input configurations, there is a hope that future work will make such datasets publicly available. The computational cost of these simulations increases significantly with refined grids or an increased number of components in the system. For our preliminary studies, we uti- lized tNavigatorDynamics (2023) to perform 1000 2D UHS simulations in depleted gas reservoirs, varying porosity and permeability heterogeneity. Each simulation includes ten annual cycles of six- month H 2injection followed by six months of withdrawal. These simulations were parallelized across four 64-core CPU servers, taking approximately five days to complete. An example is de- picted in Figure 1. See Appendix B.1 for more details on the data produced, and Figure 4 for a simulation conducted in a different type of geological formation. It should be noted that data gen- eration of more realistic systems, such as ones that are not 2D, that will require significantly more computing power. 2 Published as a workshop paper at Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning , ICLR 2024 3 R OADMAP TOWARDS ML FOR UHS We
__label__energy	Exploring Blockchain for The Coordination of Distributed Energy Resources Qing Yang College of Electronics and Information Engineering and Blockchain Technology Research Center Shenzhen University Shenzhen, China yang.qing szu.edu.cnHao Wang Department of Data Science and Artiﬁcial Intelligence Faculty of Information Technology Monash University Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia hao.wang2 monash.edu Abstract The fast growth of distributed energy resources (DERs), such as distributed renewables (e.g., rooftop PV panels), energy storage systems, electric vehicles, and controllable ap- pliances, drives the power system toward a decentralized system with bidirectional power ﬂow. The coordination of DERs through an aggregator, such as a utility, system operator, or a third-party coordinator, emerges as a promising paradigm. However, it is not well understood how to enable trust between the aggregator and DERs to integrate DERs efﬁciently. In this paper, we develop a trustable and distributed coordination system for DERs using blockchain technology. We model various DERs and formulate a cost minimization problem for DERs to optimize their energy trading, scheduling, and demand response. We use the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) to solve the problem in a distributed fashion. To implement the distributed algorithm in a trustable way, we design a smart contract to update multipliers and communicate with DERs in a blockchain network. We validate our design by experiments using real-world data, and the simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm. Index Terms Smart grid, distributed energy resource (DER), energy management, distributed optimization, blockchain I. I NTRODUCTION Various factors, such as concerns about climate change, have driven the fast growth of distributed energy resources (DERs) in the power system. These DERs often include distributed renewables (e.g., rooftop PV panels), energy storage systems, electric vehicles, and controllable appliances, such as heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HV AC), water heaters, and washers. Due to the stochastic and non-dispatchable nature of DERs, it is challenging to manage DERs by the centralized approach used in the operation of today s power system. A paradigm shift toward a decentralized power system with bidirectional power ﬂow is gaining attention to enable the integration of DERs. The widely accepted roadmap is inte- grating hundreds of thousands of DERs through an aggregator, such as a utility, system operator, or a third-party coordinator. However, it is not well understood how to build trust between DERs and the aggregator to coordinate DERs. This paper aims to explore blockchain, known as a decentralized ledger, to facilitate a trustable system for the decentralized coordination of DERs. Corresponding author: Hao Wang.A. Related works A large body of literature studied how to coordinate DERs for various applications. For example, the aggregation of controllable loads, distributed generators, and energy storage was studied in 1 for mitigating the impact of the variable renewable generations. The integration of distributed renew- ables as a virtual power plant was studied in 2 . Other research considered coordinating DERs to provide demand response (DR) in addition to feeding electricity back to the grid. Customer-owned DERs, such as HV AC, water heaters, and cloth washers, can be switched on or off to absorb or shed power. For example, using electric space heating loads in a building to defer power consumption was studied in 3 . How to coordinate ﬂexible loads to build demand response capacity was illustrated in 4 . Recent studies also explored other transactive energy applications for DERs, such as ancillary services 5 7 and peer-to-peer energy trading 8 . However, the above studies adopted centralized solution methods, which causes privacy concerns and operational problems, as DERs are often owned by independent prosumers. Great efforts have also been made to develop distributed solutions to the coordination of DERs. For example, Wang and Huang in 9 designed an incentive mechanism and a distributed algorithm for energy trading among interconnected microgrids. Yang and Wang in 10 developed a distributed transactive energy management scheme for smart homes to energy trading and manage their HV AC systems. You et al. in 11 developed distributed solutions to the scheduling problem of battery swapping for electric vehicles. A fully distributed algorithm was proposed in 12 for a virtual power plant considering the transmission limits and constraints of DERs. Most of the developed distributed algorithms shared similar underlying methodologies, such as primal-dual decomposition and alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). However, such algorithms often need to be executed by DERs and a central computing node that updates the dual variables. Such a design has a risk of single-point failure and also requires a veriﬁable and trustable computing environment. This paper is motivated to address the above problem and facilitate a trustable system for the coordination of DERs.arXiv:2103.06046v1 cs.DC 10 Mar 2021 B. Our Work and Contributions Blockchain 13 is a decentralized ledger that can provide trust and transparency to the transactions. Blockchain can also execute smart contracts to run generic programs to enable various functions. Recently, the energy sector has been keen to explore blockchain technology to enable transactional digital platforms and improve the efﬁciencies of the system. For example, LO3 Energy 14 deployed a blockchain system to allow online payments for energy trading in a microgrid. In this work, we take a further step to design a blockchain system for DERs to enable distributed optimization and build a trustable and efﬁcient future energy system. Specially, we formulate an optimization problem for DERs to interact with each other and with the grid by feeding back energy and performing demand response. Given the popularity of ADMM in the distributed energy system, we also decompose our DER optimization problem and solve it using ADMM to coordinate DERs in a distributed manner. We design a trustable DER coordination system based on the blockchain technology by implementing the updating rules for the dual variables in a smart contract on the blockchain system. Our design provides a generic approach to the implementation of distributed opti- mization algorithms on blockchain and thus enable a trustable and efﬁcient system for the coordination of DERs in the future power grid. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	Capturing Distribution Grid -Integrated Solar Variability and Uncertain ty Using Microgrids Alireza Majzoobi, Amin Khodaei Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Denver Denver, CO, USA alireza.m ajzoobi du.edu , amin.khodaei du.edu Shay Bahramirad Distribution Planning and Smart Grid Commonwe alth Edison Oakbrook, IL, USA shay.bahramirad comed.com Abstract The variable nature of the solar generation and the inherent uncertainty in solar generation forecasts are two challenging issues for utility grids , especially as the distribution grid integrated solar generation proliferates. T his paper offers to utilize microgrids as local solution s for mitigating these negative drawbacks and helping the utility grid in hosting a higher penetration of solar generation . A microgrid optimal scheduling model based on robust optimization is developed to captur e solar generation variability and uncertainty . Numerical simulations on a test feeder indicate the effectiveness of the proposed model. Keywords Microgrid optimal schedu ling, solar energy , generation variability , forecast uncertainty NOMENCLATURE Sets and Indices: c Superscript for distribution network consumers prosumers. ch dch Superscript for energy storage charging discharging . d i j Index for loads DERs prosumers at the distribution network. D G S Set of adjustable loads dispatchable units energy storage N Set of consumers and prosumers. P U Set of primal variables uncertain parameters. t Index for time periods (hour). u Superscript for the utility grid. Index for calculated variables. Parameters: DR UR Ramp down up rate. DT UT Minimum down up time. E Load total required energy . F(.) Generation cost. MC MD Minimum charging discharging time. MU Minimum operating time. α, β Specified start and end times of adjustable loads. ρM Market price. η Energy storage efficiency. Variables: C Energy storage available (stored) energy. D Load demand. I Commitment state of dispatchable units. P DER output power. PM Utility grid power exchange with the microgrid. SD SU Shut down s tartup cost. Tch Tdch Number of successive charging discharging hours . Ton Toff Number of successive ON OFF hours . u Energy storage discharging state (discharging : 1, charging: 0). v Energy storage charging state (charging : 1, discharging: 0). z Adjustable load state (operating : 1, otherwise : 0). λ, µ, π Dual variables. α Reflected operation cost in the master problem. I. INTRODUCTION HE global concern for increased greenhouse gas emissions, high hydrocarbon -based fuel costs, and the need for sustainable power generation resources have resulted in a rapid worldwide deployment of renewable energy resources that produce inexpensive and emission -free energy. Solar energy resources are anticipated to be core components of future power systems and viable enable rs of sustainable power generation. Solar energy is abundant and pollution free , and despite conventional power generation resources , which normally must be installed close to the source of the fuel, solar energy resources can be installed nearly everywhe re the sun shines; hence they significantly facilitate on -site and distributed power generation 1 , 2 . Moreover, e ase of installation and high efficiency has made the solar energy as the first choice of consumers who are willing to utilize a n energy res ource to offset a portion of their consumption or are seeking economic benefits from a locally generated power 3 , 4 . These advantages have established solar energy as a promising technology that will play a major role in future power systems . Recent dro ps in solar technology prices, i.e., more than 50 over the last five years, have made this technology more attractive than ever. In 201 5, the worldwide installed solar energy capacity grew by 28 to reach a total of 227 GW 5 . In 2016, more than 7 GW sol ar PV were installed in the U.S. while residential PV was the greatest sector with over 2 GW of installation 6 . In the context of solar power forecasting, 7 - 9 discuss the available methods in forecasting. Accurately forecasting solar power is a major area of research in solar industry and many efforts have been devoted to this inquiry. Solar power forecasting is conducted by simulation, statistical methods, or a combination of the two. All forecasting methods suffer from a level of inaccuracy , which is a result of inherent variability in solar irradia nce. Constant fluctuations in solar power make accurate forecasting a formidable task. Even if the hours of volat ility and intermittency are identified, it would be very difficult to forecast the exact value of solar power , hence solar forecasts are usually involved with high forecast errors and uncertainty. The two major solar power forecast charact eristics are defi ned as variability and uncertainty. Variability denotes the unavailability of solar power during the day and the fact that solar power is not always available (i.e., intermittency), and the T fluctuating nature of solar power in different time scales from seconds to minutes to hours (i.e., volatility). Uncertainty denotes the inability to accurately predict in advance the timing and the magnitude of solar generation variability. Thus, d espite all advantages, extensive application of solar power is troublesome for electric utilities due to its variable nature which would require highly flexible power systems to facilitate the integration 10 - 12 . Solar power requires backup generation to compensate for the lost power when the forecasted solar power is not mat erialized or the forec ast is inaccurate 13 - 15 . Therefore, effective coordination of solar power with the existing power system infrastructure in order to achieve a smooth and controllable output is critical to an efficient and sustainable deployment of these resources. The ultimate goal in a coordination scheme is to smooth out the variability of solar power when coordinated and operated with other system components. Common methods are to install and commit additional fast response generation units (to provide additional reserve) and or to coordinate the solar power wit h an energy storage system 16 , 17 . These methods, however, require installation of capital -intensive resources and typically not very desirable
__label__energy	Arxiv Copy The Sower s Way: Quantifying the Narrowing Net-Energy Pathways to a Global Energy Transition Authors: Sgouris Sgouridis1 , Ugo Bardi2, Denes Csala1 Affiliations: 1 Institute Center for Smart and Sustainable Systems, Masdar Institute of Science and Technology. United Arab Emirates. Tel: 971 2 810 9156, Fax: 971 2 810 9901. 2 University of Florence, Department of Earth Sciences, C o Dipartimento di Chimica, Polo Scientifico di Sesto Fiorentino, 50019, Florence, Italy. Email: ugo.bardi unifi.it Correspondence to: ssgouridis masdar.ac.ae Abstract: Planning the appropriate renewable energy installation rate should balance two partially contradictory objectives: substituting fossil fuels fast enough to stave-off the worst consequences of climate change while maintaining a sufficient net energy flow to support the world s economy. The upfront energy invested in constructing a renewable energy infrastructure subtracts from the net energy available for societal energy needs, a fact typically neglected in energy projections. Modeling feasible energy transition pathways to provide different net energy levels we find that they are critically dependent on the fossil fuel emissions cap and phase-out profile and on the characteristic energy return on energy invested of the renewable energy technologies. The easiest pathway requires installation of renewable energy plants to accelerate from 0.12TWp year in 2013 to peak between 6.6 and 10.4 TWp year, for an early or a late fossil-fuel phase-out respectively in order for emissions to stay within the recommended CO2 budget. Note: due to size limits, the Supplementary Information cannot be uploaded to Arxiv. Please contact us (ssgouridis masdar.ac.ae) and we can share the file directly. Background The 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) has highlighted the need for a rapid transition away from fossil fuels in order to maintain the emissions of greenhouse gases below a level considered to have an acceptable probability of being safe, leading to a temperature increase not greater than 2C or even 1.5C. While the goal is clear and ambitious, the methods for attaining it are not. The Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) submitted prior to the conference are clearly insufficient to maintain emissions under the target level and the current mainstream scenarios presented rely on, controversial, late century negative emissions 1,2. In addition to the need of reducing greenhouse emissions, a second fundamental target that is implicit in the COP21 agreement is that these reductions should be obtained while offering sufficient available energy for humankind, especially for developing countries that are ascending the energy availability ladder. Such a transition implies the development of a new energy paradigm, relying on renewable energy (RE) and supported by a more efficient infrastructure for its storage, transmission and use. Is it possible to satisfy the dual constraint of reducing emissions fast enough while achieving the desired energy availability? Posed this way, it becomes a physical rather than an economic problem. In order to build the new infrastructure and power the transition, we need energy that, initially, will primarily come from fossil fuels. As the transition progresses, fossil fuels are replaced by RE to the point that the energy system relies 100 on the latter. The transition is therefore determined by the rate of RE installations that substitutes the fossil removals but also by the energy investment needed to support this rate as defined by the energy return on energy investment (EROEI) of the sources. The economic approaches employed by the vast majority of energy models used for long-term planning fails to account for this crucial detail while relying on negative emissions. We present a methodology for modeling the dynamics of the energy transition using the more appropriate net energy approach. While conventional energy statistics track gross energy, the crucial metric for sustaining socio-economic metabolism is net energy, the energy made available from a resource after subtracting the energy expended in its extraction, upgrade and distribution 3 4. When the EROEI 5 is large and the investment is operational i.e. concurrent with the energy extraction, like in fossil fuels and biomass, the net or gross distinction is of limited consequence. It becomes critical though when EROEI is lower, the investment is capital intensive, as in the case of technical renewable energy (RE) like wind or solar, and the rate of installation is high 6. Accounting for these dynamic effects, we map the possible trajectories for a sustainable energy transition (SET) at a global scale. We show that renewable energy installation rates should accelerate and increase at least by a factor of 50 and perhaps more than 90 over current, at their peak, to mitigate climate change and sustain the economy. These estimates are based on a global energy model that uses physical energy balances to estimate net, as opposed to gross, energy availability. It is the first model to transparently represent the dynamics of the energy transition on a physical rather than on an economic basis. With the reasoned assumption that options like efficiency, carbon capture, nuclear and biomass that were central in previous work cannot scale sufficiently fast, we project specific annual renewable energy installation rates that form trajectories compliant with a rigorously defined SET. A key characteristic of SET is that it requires energy to construct the necessary RE infrastructure and to integrate the mostly variable RE resources in the energy system. Since at present the world s energy derives primarily from fossil resources, we need energy from fossil fuels to transition away from their use. This requirement is analogous to the sower s strategy 7, the long-established farming practice to save a fraction of the current year s harvest as seeds for the next. Fossil fuels produce no seed of their own but we can sow what these fuels provide: energy and minerals to create the capital needed for the transition 8. Yet, withdrawing the seed energy reduces net available energy for society. The challenge therefore is to balance energy availability and emissions in order to complete a renewable transition before fossil fuel depletion makes it impossible without inflicting crippling damages on the climate. Past transitions have been partial and yet slow, typically spanning
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Competition between collective and individual dynamics S ebastian Grauwin y, Eric Bertin y, R emi Lemoyy z, and Pablo Jensen y z x Universit e de Lyon, Laboratoire de Physique,ENS Lyon and CNRS, 46 all ee d Italie, F-69007 Lyon, France ,yIXXI, 5 rue du Vercors, F-69007 Lyon, France,zLaboratoire d Economie des Transports,Universit e Lyon 2 and CNRS, 14, av. Berthelot F-69007 Lyon, France, andxTo whom correspondence should be addressed; E-mail: pablo.jensen ens- lyon.fr Submitted to Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America Linking the microscopic and macroscopic behavior is at the heart of many natural and social sciences. This apparent similarity conceals essential di erences across disciplines: while physical particles are assumed to optimize the global energy, economic agents maximize their own utility. Here, we solve exactly a Schelling-like segregation model, which interpolates continuously between cooperative and in- dividual dynamics. We show that increasing the degree of cooper- ativity induces a qualitative transition from a segregated phase of low utility towards a mixed phase of high utility. By introducing a simple function which links the individual and global levels, we pave the way to a rigorous approach of a wide class of systems, where dynamics is governed by individual strategies. socioeconomyjstatistical physicsjsegregationjphase transitions The intricate relations between the individual and collec- tive levels are at the heart of many natural and social sciences. Di erent disciplines wonder how atoms combine to form solids 1, 2 , neurons give rise to consciousness 3, 4 or individuals shape markets and societies 5, 6, 7 . However, scienti c elds assume distinct points of view for de ning the normal , or equilibrium aggregated state. Physics looks at the collec- tive level, selecting the con gurations that minimize the global free energy 2 . In contrast, economic agents behave in a sel sh way, and equilibrium is attained when no agent can increase its own satisfaction 8 . Although similar at rst sight, the two approaches lead to radically di erent outcomes, and the sel sh strategy may prove dramatically ine cient in presence of interactions between agents. We illustrate this e ect on an exactly solvable model, similar to Schelling s segregation model 9 . Considering individual agents which prefer a mixed environment, we study the segregated or mixed patterns that emerge at the global level. A tax parameter monitors con- tinuously the agents degree of altruism or cooperativity, i.e., their consideration of the global welfare. At low degrees of cooperativity, segregation occurs and the agents utilities re- main low, in spite of continuous e orts to maximize their sat- isfaction. As the altruism parameter is increased, a phase transition occurs, driving the system towards a mixed phase of maximal utility. Our approach generalizes the free energy function used in physics, allowing to predict analytically the stationary states, which required so far numerical simulations 10 . Model Our model represents in a schematic way the dynamics of res- idential moves in a city. For simplicity, we include one type of agent, but our results can readily be generalized to deal with agents of two colors , as in the original Schelling model 9 (see below). The city is divided into Qblocks (Q 1), each block containing Hcells or ats (Fig. 1). We assume that each cell can contain at most one agent, so that the number nqof agents in a given block q(q 1;:::;Q ) satis esnq H, and we introduce the density of agents q nq H. Each agent has the same utility function u( q), which describes the degreeof satisfaction concerning the density of the block it is living in. The collective utility is de ned as the total utility of all the agents in the city: U(x) HP q qu( q), wherex f qg corresponds to the coarse-grained con guration of the city, i.e. the knowledge of the density of each block. For a given x, there is a large number of ways to arrange the agents in the di erent cells. This number of arrangements is quanti ed by its logarithm S(x), called the entropy of the con guration x. The dynamical rule allowing the agents to move from one block to another is the following. At each time step, one picks up at random an agent and a vacant cell, within two di er- ent blocks. Then the agent moves in that empty cell with probability: Pxy 1 1 e C T; 1 wherexandyare respectively the con gurations before and after the move, and Cis the cost associated to the proposed move. The positive parameter Tis a temperature which introduces in a standard way 11 some noise on the decision process. It can be interpreted as the e ect of features that are not explicitely included in the utility function but still a ect the moving decision (urban facilities, friends. . . ). We write the costCas : C u ( U u) 2 where uis the variation of the agent s own utility upon mov- ing and Uis the variation of the total utility of all agents. The parameter 0 1 weights the contribution of the other agents utility variation in the calculation of the cost C, and it can thus be interpreted as a degree of cooperativity (or altruism). For 0, the probability to move only depends on the sel sh interest of the chosen agent, while for 1 it only depends on the collective utility. Varying in a con- tinuous way, one can interpolate between these two limiting behaviors. Potential function We wish to nd the stationary probability distribution ( x) of the microscopic con gurations x. If the costCcan be writ- ten asC V V(y) V(x), whereV(x) is a function of the Reserved for Publication Footnotes www.pnas.org cgi doi 10.1073 pnas.0709640104 PNAS Issue Date Volume Issue Number 1 4arXiv:0907.2167v1 physics.soc-ph 13 Jul 2009 con guration x, then the dynamics satis es detailed balance 12 and the distribution ( x) is given by (x) 1 ZeF(x) T;
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Assessing the Impact of O shore Wind Siting Strategies on the Design of the European Power System David Radua, , Mathias Bergera, Antoine Duboisa, Rapha el Fonteneaua, Hrvoje Pand zi cb, Yury Dvorkinc, Quentin Louveauxa, Damien Ernsta aDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Li ege, All ee de la D ecouverte 10, 4000 Li ege, Belgium bFaculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb, HR-1000 Zagreb, Croatia cDepartment of Electrical and Computer Engineering, NYU Tandon School of Engineering, NY 11201, USA Abstract This paper provides a detailed account of the impact of di erent o shore wind siting strategies on the design of the European power system. To this end, a two-stage method is proposed. In the rst stage, a highly-granular siting problem identi es a suitable set of sites where o shore wind plants could be deployed according to a pre-speci ed criterion. Two siting schemes are anal- ysed and compared within a realistic case study. These schemes essentially select a pre-speci ed number of sites so as to maximise their aggregate power output and their spatiotemporal complementarity, respectively. In addition, two variants of these siting schemes are provided, wherein the number of sites to be selected is speci ed on a country-by-country basis rather than Europe- wide. In the second stage, the subset of previously identi ed sites is passed to a capacity expansion planning framework that sizes the power generation, transmission and storage assets that should be deployed and operated in order to satisfy pre-speci ed electricity demand levels at minimum cost. Results show that the complementarity-based siting criterion leads to system designs which are up to 5 cheaper than the ones relying the power output-based criterion when o shore wind plants are deployed with no consideration for country-based deployment targets. On the contrary, the power output-based scheme leads to system designs which are consistently 2 cheaper than the ones leveraging the complementarity-based siting strategy when such constraints are enforced. The robustness of the results is supported by a sensitivity analysis on o shore wind capital expenditure and inter-annual weather variability, respectively. Keywords: asset siting, o shore wind, resource complementarity, capacity expansion planning Corresponding author. Email address: dcradu uliege.be (David Radu) Preprint submitted to Elsevier May 26, 2021arXiv:2011.07514v2 eess.SY 25 May 2021 1. Introduction The large-scale deployment of technologies harnessing renewable energy sources (RES) for electricity production has been a mainstay of climate and decarboniza- tion policies. In Europe, solar photo-voltaic and onshore wind power plants have formed the bulk of new renewable capacity additions for over a decade 1 . Nev- ertheless, in spite of the need for extra capacity deployments required to achieve ambitious decarbonization targets 2 , the pace at which these technologies are deployed in a number of countries has remained sluggish of late 1 , often as a result of social acceptance issues 3 and the phasing out of renewable support schemes. On the other hand, the economics of o shore wind power generation have greatly improved in recent years 4 . O shore wind power plants are also located in unpopulated areas and are therefore less subject to social acceptance issues than onshore ones. Furthermore, the o shore wind resource is most of- ten of much better quality than the onshore one 5 . Hence, the large-scale deployment of o shore wind power plants has increasingly been viewed as a key enabler of European decarbonization e orts 6, 7 . However, widely-available RES such as solar irradiance or o shore wind are inherently variable on time scales ranging from minutes to years and integrating them in power systems typically complicates planning and operational proce- dures 8 . Several solutions have been advocated to alleviate these issues, in- cluding the large-scale deployment of electricity storage systems 9, 10 or the implementation of demand response programs 11 . Alternatively, since RES are heterogeneously-distributed in space and time, it has been suggested that siting RES electricity production assets so as to exploit this diversity may reduce the aggregate output variability of RES power plants as well as the residual elec- tricity load (i.e., total load minus renewable production) 12, 13 . The concept of RES complementarity formalises this idea 14 . From a modelling perspective, the interplay between investment (both sit- ing and sizing) and operational decisions should be accounted for in order to evaluate the impact of siting strategies on system design and economics. Hence, ideally, models should perform both siting and sizing simultaneously, have a high spatiotemporal resolution as well as a high level of technical detail. Unfortu- nately, such models quickly become impractical (e.g., require tens of thousands of core-hours 15 ) or intractable. Thus, the siting and sizing problems have tra- ditionally been tackled separately in the literature, but the outcomes of siting models have rarely been leveraged in sizing models. In this paper, the role that o shore wind power plants may play in the European power system is analysed, with a particular focus on the impact that plant siting strategies have on system design and economics. To this end, a two- stage method is developed. In the rst stage, a highly-granular siting problem is solved in order to identify a suitable subset of candidate sites where o shore wind power plants could be deployed. Then, in the second stage, the subset of locations selected in the rst stage is passed to a capacity expansion planning framework that sizes the power generation, transmission and storage assets that should be deployed and operated in order to satisfy pre-speci ed electricity 2 demand levels at minimum cost subject to technical and policy constraints. An open source tool implementing the two-stage method is also provided for the sake of transparency. Two types of deployment schemes that select sites so as to maximise their ag- gregate power output and spatiotemporal complementarity are analysed. Roughly speaking, sites are considered complementary if they rarely experience simul- taneous low electricity production events 16 . Two variants of these siting schemes are also
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	1 Abstract This paper summarizes the operational challenges imposed by integration of renewable electricity generation units in transmission level wher e the most common renewable generation units are solar and wind farms at the scale of 100s to 1000s MW. Such units, because of their stochastic nature, introduce new complexity and uncertainty to the grid. Throughout this paper, some results from the recent planning study of integration of 1,000 MW offshore wind farm into the U.S. Eastern Interconnection transmission system are shown. Index Terms Power System Dynamics, Renewable Energy, Stability, Transmission System I. INTRODUCTION OWER systems planning is the process of foreseeing load demand, using historic data, and ensuring that sufficient generation capacity expansion and adequate reserve are available throughout 24 hours of planning horizon to meet the demand 1 . Traditionally, the operators had to match the forecasted load and dispatchable generation units. Ever since the advent of power generation by renewable units, new concerns have arisen due to uncertainty and variability of these units. These units could be integrated in both transmission and distribution levels, depending on their size. Wind farms and Photovoltaic farms are usually installed in scales of 100s to 1000s MW which are required to be integrated at the transmission level. As a result of their nature, generation and transmission system planning has become a major concern. Technical planning of generation and transmission systems is highly correlated. This is b ecause of the fact that the power generated by the generation units is transmitted to the locations where consumers are located by the transmission system. Therefore, they are highly tied and share common stability and control issues. Technical planning of transmission systems concerns two major areas: (1) Steady state stability and (2) Dynamic stability. The steady state stability of electrical power systems refers to the behavior of system while operating at any given equilibrium operating point. The dynamic stability of electrical power systems refers to the behavior of the system This work was supported by US Department of Energy under grant No. DE EE0005367: Great Lakes Offsho re Wind: Utility and Regional Integration Study. The authors are with the Departme nt of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Case Western Rese rve University, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA (e-mail: axs1026 case.edu). following any disturbance event, by focusing on the trajectory that it takes from pre-disturbance operating point to post- disturbance operating point. Fig. 1 shows the classification of stability studies that are required for assessment of transmission system operation. Fig. 1. Classification of tran smission system planning studies This work summarizes the key issues in transmission system planning associated with integration of large scale wind and solar farms. The rest of this paper consists of three main sections: The first section addresses the challenges imposed to the steady state oper ation of the system. Whereas the second section elaborates the challenges imposed to the dynamics operation of the system. Finally, the conclusion closes this paper. Throughout this paper, some results from the recent planning study of inte gration of 1,000MW offshore wind farm into the U.S. Eastern Interconnection, FirstEnergy PJM transmission sy stem, are shown. This study has been carried out by the Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) in collaboration with the team of General Electric (GE), National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), FirstEnergy Utility (FE) and PJM Interconnection (PJM). II. S TEADY STATE STABILITY The steady state operation of transmission systems is associated with two constraints 3 : 1) Line thermal rating of the lines and 2) Voltage regulation across the high voltage system Usually, the voltage stability margin is much smaller than Transmission System Planning for Integration of Renewable Electricity Generation Units Amirhossein Sajadi, Luka Strezoski, Richard M. Kolacinski and Kenneth A. Loparo P 2 the thermal stability margin. Therefore, the voltage stability margin determines the overall stability margin for the system 4 . Following section discusses the steady state stability related challenges. A. Normal Operation The fundamental concern of pow er system planning is to ensure that throughout every 24 hours of everyday of the year, enough generation units are capable and enough line capacity is available to serve the demand load without violation of system s constraint. This is re ferred to as reliability of the power system. There are three metrics used in industry to determine level of reliability of power systems 5 : (1) Loss of Load Expectation, LOLE, (2) Loss of Load Probability, LOLP, (3) Effective Load Ca rry Capacity, ELCC. These are probabilistic indices and their computation requires applying probabilistic methods to the entire interconnected power system model including its constraints such as generation capacities and transmission limits between areas and involve the load pr ofiles, scheduled outages and probabilistic model of forced outages. The LOLE is expressed in 1 day per 10 years or 0.1 day per year and represents the expected number of the days in a year in which power generation shortage might occur rather than the total outage time. The LOLP represents, solely, the probability of the event in which power generation shortage occurs without any specific information about the time duration of the shortage. The computation procedure of the LO LE uses the entire daily load profiles when the LOLP uses only the peak values of daily load profiles. The ELCC is expressed in percentage and represents the contribution of any given generator in capacity of a power system in serving peak load 6 , 7 . (a) without renewable units (b) with renewable units Fig. 1. Steady state volta ge stability criteria with and without renewable power generation units. For integration of a solar or wind farm, due to their highly variable nature, it is required to conduct reliability studies and compute the reliability indices for all levels of contribution of the solar and wind farms in power generation, from 0 to 100 of their capacity. The details of this investigation such as the method used to model the variability of wind or solar farm depends on the operator s preference and experience and
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	1 Alireza.soroudi ucd.ie Use of Power Flow Controllers to Enhance Transmission Network Utilisation on the Irish Transmission Network A. SOROUDI, B. O CONNELL B.KELLY, M.WALSH J. KELLIHER, J. O SULLIVAN F. KREIKEBAUM, Y.MEYER EirGrid, EirGrid, Ireland Ireland USA SUMMARY The Ireland and Northern Irela nd power system is in a period of rapid transition from conventional generation to renewable genera tion and has seen a rapid increase in large demand sites requiring connection into the backbone transmission system. The role of EirGrid and SONI as Transmission System Operat or in Ireland and Northern Ireland is to operate, maintain and develop the electricity tr ansmission network. EirGrid ensure that new transmission projects are developed in a way that balances technical, economic, community and other stakeholder considerations. This has resulted in much more detailed evaluation of planning options to maximize utilisation of the existing network which may include but are not limited to uprating the capacity of the ex isting transmission system mainly through the thermal or voltage uprate of existing circuits. Another method to increase network utilisation is to strategically deploy Power Flow Cont rol devices to relieve system overloads and maximise network transfer capacities. EirGrid has developed a new grid development strategy which places particular emphasis on identifying technologies to help resolve network issues. This paper presents the study findings for application of power flow controller (PFC) to relieve system issues. KEYWORDS Power Flow Controller, Enhanced Grid Utilisation, Transmission network, Overhead line, Power system, General Algebraic Modelling System. 2 Alireza.soroudi ucd.ie 1. INTRODUCTION The last decade has seen a major increase in the levels of electricity generated from renewable sources like wind. While this is a welcome step away from carbon, this change creates new challenges when operating the electricity grid. Electricity from renewable sources is not always available when and where it s needed. Also, unlike legacy forms of generation, renewables don t deliver a predictable, continuo us flow of power. This creates new challenges to managing power flow on grids all over the world. This evolution in electricity generation comes at a time of other changes in the sector. There is rapid growth in the capacity demanded by high-tech customers like data centres. There is also the potential for rapid change in domestic consumption patterns due to electrification of heat and transport. Accompanying these seismic sh ifts, there has been a sea change in public acceptance of new electr icity infrastructure. The path to acceptance and consent is now long and uncertain - a challenge that is common to all large-scale infrastructure projects. Grid operators need to become more efficient. They also need to add flexibility and responsiveness to existing transmission infrastructure. EirGrid, in particular, made a public commitment about these issues in their 2014 Grid Developm ent Strategy 1 . They committed to develop and improve the grid while minimising the impact on local communities. Power Flow Control (PFC) is a suitable technology to help increasing network capacity while minimising impact on local communities. PFC is capable of making the transmission network more flexible by changing (increasing decreasing) the line reactance or by altering the system phase angle. New developments in this technology are allowing utilities to increase network capacity with PFC through direct installation on existing transmission lines or towers and substation deployments are becoming more compact and cost effective. These types of PFC solutions can allow the utility to provide additional reliable network capacity with minimal impact on local communities. Iterations of this type of PFC solution can also be scaled up or down as a need on the network materialises, providing a lower risk solution option to traditional alternatives such as building new overhead lines. However, a more holistic approach to the optimal location and deployment of PFC technology has not been carried out to date. This paper focu ses on an assessment as to where the benefits of PFC can be realised on the transmission network. The study uses the following high level approach: 1. Assess the level of thermal constraints on each line of the network thermal loading and duration (number of hours) over a 1 year period; 2. Determine the size and level of PFC required to alleviate thermal overloads ensuring other lines are not subsequently overloaded; and 3. Rank lines where PFC can provide an alternative solution to re-conductor or new line build. The results of this analysis will allow the TSO to assess PFC solutions more robustly than simply on a case-by-case basis. The analysis also allows the TSO to assess the optimal level of power flow control that is required on each li ne to remain within Operational and Planning standards over the 1-year study period. In para llel to this analysis, EirGrid has piloted a number of PFC technologies on their network in recent years. The outputs of this analysis will allow the TSO to quickly move into a deployment phase on their network. 3 Alireza.soroudi ucd.ie 2. METHODOLOGY 2.1 Overview A new methodology and tool have been developed for assessing the optimal locations for PFC technology on the Irish transmission network. The analysis involves performing Techno- Economic and Technical Load Flow Study analysis in order to identify potential locations to deploy PFC on the network. The high level methodology taken to complete the study is shown out in Figure 1. The tool performs two key studies to help evaluate deployment options of PFC on the Irish Transmission Network. Techno-Economic Study: This study creates a year of hourly dispatches as an input into the technical study. Technical Load Flow Studies: Load flow contingency analysis is performed on each dispatch from the techno-economic model. This is used to determine the locations and amount of PFC required on specific circuits. Figure 1: High Level Methodology for determination of PFC deployment locations on the Irish Transmission Network 2.2 Techno-economic study The techno-economic analysis uses a producti on cost modelling approach in PLEXOS. The techno-economic model applies generation and system security constraints to an electricity market model. It does not consider
__label__energy	Cyberattack on the Microgrids Through Price Modi cation Subhankar Mishra smishra niser.ac.in School of Computer Sciences, NISER, Bhubaneswar India. Homi Bhabha National Institute, Anushaktinagar, Mumbai - 400094, India Abstract Recent massive failures in the power grid acted as a wake up call for all utilities and con- sumers. This leads to aggressive pursue a more intelligent grid which addresses the concerns of reliability, e ciency, security, quality and sustainability for the energy consumers and produc- ers alike. One of the many features of the smart grid is a discrete energy system consisting of distributed energy sources capable of operating independently from the main grid known as the microgrid. The main focus of the microgrid is to ensure a reliable and a ordable energy security. However, it also can be vulnerable to cyber attack and we study the e ect of price modi cation of electricity attack on the microgrid, given that they are able to operate independently from the main grid. This attack consists of two stages, 1) Separate the microgrids from the main grid (islanding) and 2) Failing the nodes inside the microgrid. Empirical results on IEEE Bus data help us evaluate our approach under various settings of grid parameters. Keywords Microgrid, cyber-attack, smart grid, Complex Systems, Cyber-physical Systems 1 Introduction Failures in the power grid in the recent times with examples 2003 blackout in the Northeastern U.S. 1 and 2012 blackout in India 2 gave us the evidence about the catastrophic failures which can have acute e ects on the modern world. Excluding the natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and solar are, the power grid is also vulnerable to terrorists and Electromagnetic (EMP) attacks 3 . Because of this, the utility industry is undergoing through massive grid modernization e orts in e ort to tackle the situations like the blackouts discussed above. The massive blackouts came as a wake up call to utilities and consumers alike, climate change, over- population and scarcity of natural resources. In reaction, the industry began to strive for a more intelligent power grid called Smartgrid. One of many smart features of the smart grid is automated microgrids that connect seamlessly with the main grid, and may operate indepen- dently when needed. This ensures e ciency, security, reliability, quality and sustainability for energy consumers and producers alike. A microgrid is de ned as a discrete energy system consisting of distributed energy sources (e.g. renewables, conventional, storage) and loads capable of operating independently from the main grid. The important goal of microgrid is to increase the self-su ciency of energy and independence of system operation in local energy communities. A microgrid includes generation, a distribution system, consumption and storage, and manages them with advanced monitoring, control and automation systems. A fully-developed microgrid has the capability of automatically disconnecting and operating independently from the main grid. For example, in case of a natural disaster, if the energy service is disrupted from the main grid, the automated controls will cut o the microgrid from the main grid in order to avoid cascading failure. Given there is a blackout 1arXiv:2005.08757v1 eess.SY 15 May 2020 or cascading failure in the power network, the microgrids separate themselves from the main grid. Or the blackout has itself caused separation of the microgrid from the main power grid. The internal power generating resources balance the demands after the separation. The existing class of cyberattacks and EMP attacks are targeted towards the main grid without considering the reliability of the microgrids. Microgrids are safe from the cascading failure e ect caused by the above attacks in the main grid. They separate themselves from the main grid and operate independently once they sense disruption or the main grid is cut o . Also a single point attack is not possible given the distributed generation units of the microgrid is local to itself than a central generation as in the case of the main grid. In order to attack the microgrids, only the severe blackouts in the other areas of the smart grid would not have any impact. In the other way around, cyber attacker would not be successful in attacking nodes in microgrid unless the microgrid is islanded, because they would still keep receiving power from the main grid. In addition, power generation done at a smaller scale is costlier, hence the microgrid s self generation is much costlier than the power provided by the main grid. Taking both the scenarios into the consideration, we demonstrate that the microgrid is still vulnerable to cyber attacks. In our approach, we force the microgrids run solely on their own power by islanding them from the main power grid. We achieve this through price modi cation attack on the entire grid, but with focus on islanding the microgrid i.e. attacking nodes which will lead to failure of edges separating microgrid from the main power grid. The next step involves launching the price modi cation attack inside each of the microgrids, to fail as many lines as possible and cause cascading failures, leading to massive failure in the smart grid as well as the microgrids connected to the smart grid. Our contribution to the paper are 1) We have proposed a new cyberattack through price modi cation against the microgrids. We have structured the attacks given the self sustaining nature of the microgrids. It is a 2 step attack, where rst we separate the microgrids from the main grid and in the second step, we attack the load nodes of the microgrid itself. 2) We have ran the experiments on IEEE 14 Bus data along with IEEE 9 Bus data serving as the microgrids. The rest of the paper is as structured as follows. Section 2 describes the DC power ow model used in the Smart grid including the microgrid. Section 3 describes the attack model for the Price Modi cation Attack (PMA). In section 4, we evaluate our proposed algorithm and discuss mitigation measures in section 5. Section 6 concludes our paper. 2 Power Flow Power
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	Phases of the Net-zero Energy Transition and Strategies to Achieve It Jochen Markard and Daniel Rosenbloom Cite as: Markard, J., Rosenbloom, D., 2022. Phases of the net-z ero energy transition and strategies to achieve it, in: Araú jo, K. (Ed.), Routl edge Handb ook of Energy Transitions. Routledge, New York. Abstract The net- zero energy transition is an extraordinary societal challenge. It requires a swift, radical and economy wide transformation. With the aim of info rming research and policy, we id entify general phases of this transition and the overarching strategies that may be bro ught to bear in tackling this challenge. Drawing from the literature on sustainability transition studies, we depict the net-zero energy transition as a non-linear, cumulative process that involves multiple, interdependent transitions in different sectors. Future emission targets can only be reached if policymaking will play a strong role in guiding these transitions. To understand the increasing complexity of the policy challenge, we distinguish four overlappin g phases of development: emergence of low-carbon innovations, transition of a single sector (electricity), transitions of multiple sectors based on low- carbon electricity, and transitions in difficult -to-decarbonize sectors. We argue that each phase comes with new policy challenges on top of the already existing ones. Finally, we discuss the me rits and limitations of five general strategies for decarbonization: efficiency improvement, low-carbon electrification, low -carbon fuels, negativ e emissions and untapped demand -side approaches. While electrification has emerged as the dominant strategy, new lo w-carbon fuels (e.g., based on hydrogen) but also more radical changes (e.g., substitution of carbon -intensive products or lifestyle changes) merit further attention. 1 Introduction The low-carbon energ y transition has entered a new phase of development as more and more governments, and private firms, are making pledg es to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to net - zero. As of 2021, over 120 countries, which together represent 61 of the global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, had announced commitments to reach net -zero by mid century o r soon after ( ECIU, 2021). Major emitters such as the United States, China, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan are also on board. 1 2 With the rise of net-zero targets, societal and policy discourse surrounding climate change has shifted fundamentally. Framing the climate challenge in terms of net-zero foregrounds the deep changes that will be required. It will not suffice to make improvements in some sectors (e.g., phasing out coal-fired power generation in favor of renewable energy). Instead, all GHG emissions in all sectors and places will need to be cut or compensated for. To achieve this, far-reaching and economy wide changes in production and consumption systems will be necessary, including the transformation of difficult-to-decarbonize industries such as aviation, shipping or cement production (Davis et al., 2018; Miller et al., 2021). This analysis focuses on the energy dimensions of this challenge as energy-related CO2 emissions account for about three quarters of all emissions, or 34 Gt in 2020 (IEA, 2021). Herein, the associated technological, organizational, political and institutional change processes toward eliminating or compensating for these emissions will be referred to as the net-zero energy transition. It includes multiple, interconnected socio-technical transitions across a broad range of sectors, from electricity to transport, buildings and industry. Figure 1: Global CO2 emissions across sectors and projected path to net-zero; Source: IEA 2021 The IEA scenario expects negative emissions to occur in later years through carbon dioxide removal technologies. We provide some more detail on this in section 3.3. Much of what we know about change processes of this sort has come from the field of transition studies (Markard et al., 2012). This research has uncovered the multiple interacting factors that shape transitions in multiple societal domains such as transport (Geels, 2005; Geels et al., 2012), and electricity (Foxon, 2013; Verbong and Geels, 2007). However, this body of work has predominantly focused on single sectors or the emergence of one major innovation. Take, for example, the shift from sailing to steam ships or from propeller to jet engines (Geels, 2002; Geels, 2006). Key frameworks in transition studies such as the multi-level perspective (Geels, 2019) or technological innovation systems (Markard, 2020) have been developed to explain transformation processes -505101520253035 2020203020402050Gt CO2BuildingsTr ansportIndustryPo werOther energy 3 around a focal innovation or focal sector but they are not geared toward the complexity of multiple innovations and multiple transforming sectors. While scholars have identified specific deficits in existing approaches (Papachristos et al., 2013; Rosenbloom, 2020) and made first suggestions of how to overcome them (Andersen and Markard, 2020; Geels, 2018; Schot and Kanger, 2018), we still lack an overarching framework to capture transitions as complex as the net-zero energy transition. In particular, we still have a limited understanding of the new policy challenges that arise as the transition enters new phases of development, especially as change processes accelerate, accumulate, and broaden in scope. In the following, we address some of these shortcomings. We develop a simple schematic model, which conceptualizes the net-zero energy transition as a set of interdependent sectoral transitions and distinguishes four qualitatively different phases of development. The distinction of phases is important because each comes with new, additional challenges for policymaking. Next to the phases and policy challenges, we discuss different decarbonization strategies such as low-carbon electrification, new types of fuels or lifestyle changes. These are an important element in a framework for the net-zero energy transition because the challenges that lie ahead will, most likely, require a mix of approaches to tackle decarbonization. Our arguments build on insights from the field of sustainability transitions research, which highlights that large-scale transformations are systemic, non-linear and involve socio-political as well as techno-economic processes (Geels et al., 2017; Köhler et al., 2019; Markard et al., 2012). The phases and strategies we discuss will be of a broad, partly stylized nature to provide general guidance. Our propositions are inspired by future necessities as well as past developments in some places. Countries such as Germany, the UK or Denmark, for example,
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	arXiv:2003.06262v1 eess.SY 13 Mar 2020Optimized Control of Variable Speed Hydropower for Provision of Fast Frequency Reserves Tor Inge Reigstad Kjetil Uhlen Department for Electric Power Engineering Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) Trondheim, Norway tor.inge.reigstad, kjetil.uhlen ntnu.no Abstract This paper deals with the design of controllers for variable speed hydropower (VSHP) plants with the objective of optimize the plants performance. The control objectives im ply enabling fast responses to frequency deviations while keep ing the electric and hydraulic variables within their constrai nts. A model predictive controller (MPC) was developed to coordin ate the turbine controller with the virtual synchronous genera tor (VSG) control of the power electronics converter. The simul ation results show that the VSG is able to deliver fast power respon ses by utilizing the rotational energy of the turbine and the gen erator. The MPC controls the guide vane opening of the turbine to rega in the nominal turbine rotational speed. If this is not possibl e due to the constraints of the hydraulic system, the MPC adjusts t he power output of the VSHP by changing the VSG power reference. The proposed control system allows the VSHP to provide fast frequency reserves (FFR). Index Terms Fast frequency response, frequency control, model predictive control, variable speed hydropower, virt ual synchronous generator I. I NTRODUCTION Variable speed operation of hydropower plants is currently being investigated, and is motivated by several factors. On e key factor is the potential for providing ancillary service s, such as fast frequency reserves (FFR). More renewables like wind and solar energy increase the need for ﬂexible producti on and loads to balance the grid and maintain the power system security. Variable speed hydropower (VSHP) may provide thi s ﬂexibility with virtual inertia (VI) control by utilizing t he rotational energy of the turbine and the generator, both in p ro- duction and in pumping mode. Challenges and opportunities for VSHP are further explained in 1 . The hypothesis is that the VSHP can offer additional ancillary services, contribu ting to improving frequency control and maintaining grid stabil ity, thus allowing for higher penetration of variable renewable s in the grid. Complete utilization of this potential comprises the development of an advanced control system optimizing the operation of the power plant while considering the constrai nts in the electric and the hydraulic systems. This can be achiev ed This work was supported by the Research Council of Norway und er Grant 257588 and by the Norwegian Research Centre for Hydropower T echnology (HydroCen).by combining VI control for improving the power response to frequency deviations with model predictive control (MPC) f or handling the internal control of the VSHP. Research on the use of MPC for control of hydropower plants and frequency control is limited, however, both loca lly and centralized based MPCs are used for this purpose. In 2 , a local MPC controller is used for hydro turbine governor control in a conventional power plant. The Francis turbine is represented by a linearized hygov-model, the guide vane opening speed is limited and generalized predictive contro l is used to solve the optimization problem. MPC is also used for frequency control as in 3 . A bat-inspired algorithm is utilized to optimize the MPC design for load frequency contr ol of superconducting magnetic storage and capacitive energy storage. A centralized MPC considering limitations on tie-line powe r ﬂow, generation capacity, and generation rate of change is studied for load frequency control in 4 6 , applying bot h linear and nonlinear MPC. MPC can also be used to damp oscillations in the AC system by minimizing the generators frequency deviation from the average system frequency by a global MPC-based grid control 7 10 . This control layou t can be modiﬁed to also control voltage and ensure voltage stability 11 . A PID controller is utilized to control the guide vane open- ing of a VSHP in 12 while virtual inertia control methods for VSHP are investigated in 13 . The internal control of th e VSHP and the virtual inertia control is not coordinated and a more advanced controls system is needed to ensure that the power response of the virtual control will not cause problem s for the internal control of the power plant. In this paper, th e VSHP control is improved by proposing a new control scheme: MPC and virtual synchronous generator (VSG) control are combined to optimize the frequency response of the power plant while keeping the electric and hydraulic variables wi thin their limits. While a conventional hydropower plant has a direct relation between guide vane opening reference g , guide vane opening g, mechanical power Pm, electrical power Pe, frequencyfand turbine rotational speed ωas shown in Figure 1, the VSHP enables one more degree of freedom to control power and speed. The proposed control scheme utilizes the VSHP output power Pgto control the frequency fwhile g gPmPefω Fig. 1: Control layout of conventional hydropower plant MPC g gPmωP gPg fVSG qhr,hst,g,q, ω,f Fig. 2: Control layout of VSHP plant with MPC control qhr Head race tunnelfp2 q Penstockfp1 TurbineReservoir Surge tankf0 hst1 h Gen Grid Pm Pe ωœf Fig. 3: Waterway layout the guide vane opening reference g and the VSHP output power reference P gcontrol the turbine rotational speed ω, as indicated in Figure 2. There is still a direct relationshi p between the power and the frequency, however, the turbine rotational speed and the frequency are disengaged. This all ows for quicker changes of the VSHP output power by utilizing the rotational energy of the turbine and generator compared to a conventional power plant where the slow governor will limit the ancillary service capabilities. With that, new possibi lities emerges as faster frequency control and other grid ancillar y service, but it also necessitates proper co-ordination of t he controls - and there will be new constraints that must be take n into account. This paper is organized as follows: The MPC theory
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Stochastic Real -Time Economic Dispatch for Integrated Electric and Gas Systems Considering Uncertainty Propagation and Pipeline Leakage Peiyao Zhao, Student Member, IEEE ; Zhengshuo Li, Senior Member, IEEE ; Jiahui Zhang; Xiang Bai; Jia Su Abstract Gas-fired units (GFUs) with rapid regulation capabilities are considered an effective tool to mitigate fluctuations in the generation of renewable energy sources and have coupled electricity power systems (EPSs) and natural gas systems (NGSs) more tightly. However, this tight coupling leads to uncertainty propagation, a challenge for the real -time dispatch of such integrated electric and gas systems (IEGSs). Moreover, pipeline leakage failures in the NGS may threaten the electricity supply reliability of the EPS through GFUs. To address these problems , this paper first establishes an operational model considering gas pipeline dynamic characteristics under uncertain leakag e failures for the NGS and then presents a stochastic IEGS real-time economic dispatch (RTED) model considering both uncertainty propagation and pipeline leakage uncertainty. To quickly solve this complicated large -scale stochastic optimization problem, a novel notion of the coupling boundary dynamic adjustment region considering pipeline leakage failure (LCBDAR) is proposed to characterize the dynamic characteristics of the NGS boundary connecting GFUs. Based on the LCBDAR, a noniterative decentralized sol ution is proposed to decompose the original stochastic RTED model into two subproblems that are solved separately by the EPS and NGS operators, thus preserving their data privacy. In particular, only one -time data interaction from the NGS to the EPS is req uired. Case studies on several IEGSs at different scales demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method . Index Terms Integrated electric and gas system, noniterative decentralized solution , pipeline leakage, real -time economic dispatch, uncertainty propagation. NOMENCLATURE A. Sets A W L Sets of automatic generation control (AGC) units, wind farms, and power demands , , , U s W s L s Sets of units, wind farms, and power demands on bus s in the power system S Set of buses in the power system GW CP GL G Sets of gas wells, compressors, gas loads, and gas -fired units in the natural gas system Robust uncertainty model based on sample paths Discrete set including the normal condition and pipeline leakage conditions of the pipeline network B. Parameters ,, ww i t i tpP Practical and forecast generation of wind farm i at time t u up dw r i i i ic c c c Unit cost of the base output, upward downward reserve, and regulation generation output of unit i N Number of sample path s in the sample path set. This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52377107) and the Shanxi Energy Internet Research Institute (SXEI2023ZD002) . (Corresponding author: Zhengshuo Li.) Peiyao Zhao and Zhengshuo Li (e -mail: zsli sdu.edu.cn ) are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Shandong University, 250061, Jinan, China. Jiahui Zhang, Xiang Bai, and Jia Su are with the Shanxi Energy Internet Research Institute, 030002, Shanxi, China. ,itD Power demand of load i at time t up dw sys sysRR Systemwide upward downward reserve requirements tr mL Transmission capacity of line m ,PT msH Transmission distribution factor from bus s to line m min max iiPP Lower upper bounds of the output of AGC unit i up dw iirr Up- and down ramp rates of AGC unit i l S d Axial length, cross -sectional area, inner diameter, and friction factor of the gas pipeline c Sound speed t t t t z z n nqq Pressure s and mass flow rates at discretized node z and practical node n in the natural gas system kkA Leakage coefficient and leakage hole area of the gas pipeline M Adiabatic coefficient and molar mass of gas GW GW GW GWqq Lower upper bounds of pressures and mass flow rates of gas wells CP CP Lower upper bounds of boosted pressure s of the compressors gw cp gl gf LN N N NN Number of gas wells, compressors, traditional gas loads, GFUs, and potential pipeline leakage conditions in the NGS. C. Variables t Uncertain power mismatch in the EPS at time t ,itP Base output of unit i at time t ,, up dw i t i tRR Upward downward reserves of unit i at time t ,it Participation factor of AGC unit i at time t I. INTRODUCTION HE decrease in fossil energy storage and the need for environmental protection have made the development of renewable energy sources (RESs) a consensus in the global energy industry 1 . However, the intermittency of RESs with increasing installed capacity poses challenges to the stable operation of electric power systems (EPSs) . Gas -fired units (GFUs) with fast regulation are considered an effective way to mitigate RES fluctuations and have been rapidly developed in recent years, leading to stronger coupling s of EPSs and natural gas systems (NGSs) 2 . Therefore, increasing attention has been given to the real -time collaborative dispatch of integrated electric and gas systems (IEGSs) with RES uncertainty . Benefiting from the tight coupling between the EPS and the NGS, during real -time dispatch, the NGS can provide flexibility for GFUs to balance the EPS power mismatches caused by the generation fluctuation s of RESs 2 . However, this tight coupling can also cause local disturbances to propagate to the entire IEGS through GFUs 3 , which poses challenges for the real -time dispatch of IEGSs . Since GFUs deal with uncertain RES fluctuations, the uncertainty in the EPS can propagate to the NGS through GFUs, resulting in pressure and gas flow fluctuat ions in pipeline networks, possibly exceeding the allowable range 4 . T The real -time economic dispatch (RTED) model for IEGS s has been studied in s everal works, e.g., 5 - 9 . Ref. 5 highlighted the uncertainty propagation mechanism of a coupling device ba lancing active power disturbances. Ref. 7 - 9 noted t hat to preserve data privacy, decentralized solutions are more suitable for the
__label__energy	Impact of climate change on the cost-optimal mix of decentralised heat pump and gas boiler technologies in Europe S. Kozarcanina,b, , R. Hannac, I. Staffellb,c, R. Grossc, G. B. Andresena aDepartment of Engineering, Aarhus University, Inge Lehmanns Gade 10, 8000 Aarhus, Denmark bImperial College Centre for Environmental Policy, 16 18 Prince s Gardens, South Kensington, London SW7 1NE, UK cImperial College Centre for Energy Policy and Technology, 16 18 Prince s Gardens, South Kensington, London SW7 1NE, UK Abstract Residential demands for space heating and hot water account for 31 of the total European energy demand. Space heating is highly dependent on ambient conditions and susceptible to climate change. We adopt a techno-economic standpoint and assess the impact of climate change on decentralised heating demand and the cost-optimal mix of heat pump and gas boiler technologies. Temperature data with high spatial resolution from nine climate models implementing three Representative Concentration Pathways from IPCC are used to estimate climate induced changes in the European demand side for heating. The demand side is modelled by the proxy of heating-degree days. The supply side is modelled by using a screening curve approach to the economics of heat generation. We ﬁnd that space heating demand decreases by about 16 , 24 and 42 in low, intermediate and extreme global warming scenarios. When considering historic weather data, we ﬁnd a heterogeneous mix of technologies are cost-optimal, depending on the heating load factor (number of full-load hours per year). Increasing ambient temperatures toward the end-century improve the economic performance of heat pumps in all concentration pathways. Cost optimal technologies broadly correspond to heat markets and policies in Europe, with some exceptions. Keywords: Climate change, decentralised heating, cost optimisation, CMIP5, IPCC, EURO-CORDEX, high resolution data, heat, policy 1. Introduction Energy consumption for space heating is by far the most important end-use in the European (EU28) residential heating sector with an estimated share of 52 in 2015 (Fleiter et al., 2017). Space heating is strongly tempera- ture dependent and mostly consumed during cold winter seasons (Kozarcanin et al., 2019). Heating systems are therefore designed to meet peak demand during cold winter periods, but for long-term design decisions, it is necessary to focus on long-term changes in the climate. Depending on the degree of climate change in the future, it is believed that the peak demand for space heating might change signiﬁcantly. Given these points, the principal aim of this study is to analyse the 21st Century climate change impact on the selection of cost-optimal, decentralised heating technologies for different locations in Europe. We deﬁne decentralised heating as all heating systems installed on a per-building basis. This means that we do not focus on large-scale centralised heating systems Corresponding author Email addresses: sko eng.au.dk (S. Kozarcanin), r.hanna imperial.ac.uk (R. Hanna), i.staffell imperial.ac.uk (I. Staffell), robert.gross imperial.ac.uk (R. Gross), gba eng.au.dk (G. B. Andresen)such as combined heat and power plants or other district heating facilities. This paper draws upon climate affected temperature data from the newest simulations carried out in the framework of the CMIP (Coupled Model Inter- comparison Project) Phase 5 (Taylor et al., 2012; Flato et al., 2013) and the EURO-CORDEX project (Kotlarski et al., 2014; Jacob et al., 2014). We present nine climate models from a combination of 4 regional climate models, RCM, downscaling 5 global climate models, GCM, under the forcing of the latest generation of climate projections provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, IPCC (Moss et al., 2010). For this study, we use the best available resolutions which is 3hr in time and 0.11 0.11 in space for Europe. A full description of the climate data is provided in the Supplementary Information Section 4 (SI 1.4). A fundamental impact on the selection of heating tech- nologies, that to the best of the authors knowledge has not been studied in detail, is the impact of local climates on the cost-optimal design of decentralised heating systems. Throughout this article, we use system design to refer to the cost-optimal selection of decentralised heat generating technologies. Spatial variations in the ambient temper- atures ﬂuctuate heterogeneously from the oceanic to thearXiv:1907.04067v4 eess.SY 17 Dec 2019 mainland climates of West and East Europe, respectively, and from the cold northern to the warmer southern climates. Climate change is furthermore expected to intro- duce long term and heterogeneous temperature anomalies across Europe. Whereas hot water demand is relatively constant throughout the year and between years (Staffell et al., 2015), the energy consumed for space heating will therefore ﬂuctuate more wildly and be subject to long-term trends that are currently not well understood. A secondary aim of this paper is to evaluate the ﬁt between cost-optimal technologies for decentralised heating and heat policies in Europe. Actual deployment of heating technologies in different countries may not necessarily reﬂect which technologies are most cost-optimal in a given location. The purpose of this policy assessment is to identify where policy intervention might be required to achieve lower cost outcomes, while contributing to overall efforts to decarbonise heating. Fig. 1 illustrates the current technology shares that are responsible for delivering the decentralised heat for a majority of the European countries. The European average bar shows that fossil fueled boilers dominate the heat generation, followed by biomass fueled technologies. Heat pumps are relatively new technologies compared to boilers and consequently hold a minor share of the total installed technology stock. On the other hand, heat pumps are gaining more attention with 99 of the units installed after 2002 while 42 of the fossil fuel boilers were installed previous to 1992 (Fleiter et al., 2016). The large increase in the penetration of heat pumps in European homes has been motivated by various policy and regulatory drivers such as subsidies and carbon taxes, building regulations, improved technical standards and information dissemina- tion (Hanna et al., 2016; Zimny et al., 2015). We focus on the European aggregated space heat demand and examine the extent to which it changes under the impact of global warming. We then estimate the con- sequent
__label__energy	1 Comparative Analysis of Machine Learning Models for Short-Term Distribution System Load Forecasting Elias Raffoul1, Mingjian Tuo2, Cunzhi Zhao3, Tianxia Zhao4, Meng Ling4, and Xingpeng Li1 1 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA 2 Key Laboratory of Automotive Power Train and Electronics, Hubei University of Automotive and Technology, Shiyan, China 3 McNeese State University, Lake Charles, LA, USA 4 Industrial AI Team, Shell, Houston, TX, USA Abstract Accurate electrical load forecasting is crucial for optimizing power system operations, planning, and management. As power systems become increasingly complex, traditional forecasting methods may fail to capture the intricate patterns and dependencies within load data. Machine learning (ML) techniques have emerged as powerful alternatives, offering superior prediction accuracy and the ability to model non-linear and complex temporal relationships. This study presents a comprehensive comparison of prominent ML models feedforward neural networks, recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory networks, gated recurrent units, and the attention temporal graph convolutional network for short-term load forecasting of the Energy Corridor distribution system in Houston, Texas. Using a 24-hour look-back window, we train the models on datasets spanning one and five years, to predict the load demand for the next hour and assess performance. Our findings aim to identify the most effective ML approach for accurate load forecasting, contributing to improved grid reliability and system optimization. Index Terms Attention Temporal Graph Convolutional Network, Distribution system, Energy Corridor, Gated Recurrent Unit, Load Forecasting, Long Short-Term Memory, Machine Learning, Recurrent Neural Network. I. INTRODUCTION As energy consumption patterns evolve due to increasing electrification and renewable integration, the power grid faces unprecedented challenges in maintaining stability and reliability. Addressing these challenges requires advancements in predictive techniques that can anticipate demand fluctuations with greater precision. Modern approaches, particularly those leveraging machine learning (ML), have the potential to transform how power systems adapt to complex load behaviors. Over the years, numerous approaches have been explored for load forecasting, ranging from classical time series models to more sophisticated statistical methods 1 . While these traditional techniques have provided valuable insights, their limitations in capturing the increasingly complex and dynamic behaviors of modern energy systems have become more apparent. The rise of ML has introduced a new era in forecasting, enabling models to learn from vast historical datasets and uncover intricate, non-linear patterns that were previously elusive 2 - 5 . This study conducts a comprehensive comparison of several notable ML models for short-term load forecasting of the Energy Corridor distribution system in Houston, Texas. The models evaluated include feedforward neural networks (FNN), recurrent neural networks (RNN), long short-term memory networks (LSTM), gated recurrent units (GRU), and the attention temporal graph convolutional network (A3T-GCN). Using a 24-hour look-back window, the models are trained on datasets spanning one year and five years, to predict the load demand for the following hour. Their performance is then assessed to evaluate their effectiveness. FNNs have been successfully applied in various load forecasting studies, demonstrating their ability to model non- linear relationships 6 . However, they lack the capacity to effectively capture temporal dependencies. In contrast, RNN architectures have proven adept at learning from sequential data, with LSTM networks, in particular, showing considerable promise due to their ability to mitigate the vanishing gradient problem. Studies have demonstrated LSTM s superiority over standard RNNs and GRU models in load forecasting tasks, achieving the lowest mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) in their analysis of Panama City s load data 7 . LSTM s ability to learn long-term dependencies makes it a leading choice for load forecasting, and several studies have validated its effectiveness in capturing both short-term and long-term load trends. For example, a comparison of LSTM, GRU, and vanilla RNN models for load forecasting in the PJM East region found LSTM to consistently outperform its counterparts across multiple accuracy metrics, including root mean square error (RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE) 8 . GRUs offer a simplified architecture compared to LSTMs while maintaining comparable performance 9 . Some research has demonstrated that GRUs can achieve equal or even superior results to LSTMs in specific load forecasting scenarios, benefiting from reduced computational complexity and faster training times 10 . Advancements in attention mechanisms have further enhanced the performance of sequence prediction models. The A3T-GCN integrates graph convolutional networks (GCN) with attention mechanisms to capture both spatial and temporal dependencies in time series data 11 . Originally developed for traffic forecasting, A3T-GCN shows promising potential for application in load forecasting due to its ability to model complex spatiotemporal relationships effectively. While extensive research has been conducted on individual ML models for load forecasting, comparative analyses across different models and temporal scales are still relatively rare. Moreover, studies that focus on real-world distribution systems, particularly those that integrate both residential and commercial loads, are limited. This study addresses these gaps by offering a detailed comparison of FNN, RNN, LSTM, GRU, and A3T- GCN models, utilizing real-world datasets from the 44-bus Energy Corridor distribution system. Through this analysis, the 2 study aims to uncover the strengths and weaknesses of each model in capturing short-term load patterns. The insights gained will not only enhance load forecasting accuracy but also inform the selection of the most appropriate models for various forecasting scenarios in power system operations. II. NETWORKS TOPOLOGIES In this section, we describe the various network topologies of ML models employed in our study, highlighting the structure and unique characteristics of each. A. Feedforward Neural Networks (FNN) FNNs are one of the most basic and widely used neural network architectures. As illustrated in Fig. 1, each neuron in a given layer is connected to every neuron in the subsequent layer, forming a dense network of connections. This architecture allows FNNs to capture complex patterns and relationships within the data by learning a series of weights that define the importance of each connection. In the context of load forecasting, FNNs are advantageous due to their simplicity and ease of implementation. They can approximate any continuous function, making them versatile for various
__label__energy	1 100 renewable electricity in Japan Cheng Cheng, Andrew Blakers, Matthew Stocks, Bin Lu RE100 Group, School of Engineering Australian National University, Canberra, Australia Abstract Japan has committed to carbon neutrality by 2050. Emissions from the electricity sector amount to 42 of the total. S olar photovoltaics (PV) and wind comprise three quarters of global net capacity additions because of low and falling prices. This provide s an opportunit y for Japan to make large reductions in emissions while also reducing its dependence on energy imports. T his study shows that Japan has 14 times more solar and offshore wind resources than needed to supply 100 renewable electricity . A 40 -year hourly energy balance model is presented of Japan s electricity system using historical data. Pumped hydro energy storage, high voltage interconnection and dispatchable capacity ( hydro, biomass and hydrogen energy ) are included to balance variable generation and demand . Differential evolution is used to find the least -cost solution under various constraints. The l evelized cost of electricity is found to be US 86 MWh for a PV -dominated system, and US 110 MWh for a wind -dominated system. These costs can be compared with the average system prices on the spot market in Japan of US 102 MWh . In summary, Japan can be self -sufficient for electricity supply at competitive costs. Keywords: Solar photovoltaic; Wind energy; Energy Storage; Resource assessment; Renewable electricity 2 1. Introduction 1.1 Policy context Japan is the fifth largest greenhouse gas (GHG) emitter in the world . Japan currently generates 21 of its electricity from renewables, with the balance comprising nuclear (7 ) , fossil fuels (70 ) and other (2 )1. The decision of the Japanese Government to commit to zero emissions in 20502 means that large -scale decarbonization of energy needs to take place in the following decades . The electricity system , accounting for 42 of the total emissions in 20193, is the best place to start, since decarbonized electricity can also displace oil in the land transport sector (electric vehicles) and gas in the heating sector (with assistance from heat pumps and electric furnaces ). Following Japan s prime ministerial pledge to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, Japan s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) formulated a Green Growth Strategy3 to pr ovide a policy framework for this transition. According to this Strategy, Japan will generate 50 - 60 of its electricity from renewables by 2050, mainly from offshore wind. The rest is expected to be supplied by hydrogen (10 ) and nuclear and fossil fuel power plants with carbon capture and storage (CCS) (30 - 40 ). In the report METI argues that 100 renewable electricity is difficult due to environmental and social constraints and concerns regarding energy flexibility, transmission, system inertia and costs. However, many studies , including those presented in a recent meeting held within METI s Comprehensive Resources and Energy Study Group Basic Policy Subcommittee4, have shown that 100 renewable electricity is technically feasible at competitive costs for many countries and regions5. The c ost of solar photovoltaic (PV) and wind energy is falling and, in many places, is cheaper than the cost of electricity from new -build coal and gas power stations6. Solar PV and wind now account for three quarters of global net capacity additions due to their low and falling prices7. Wide deployment of solar PV and wind globally means that global cost convergence is likely to happen in the next few decades as more experience is gained and local markets become more competitive. Consequently, f uture costs of solar PV and wind in Japan are expected to be much lower than today s level . As will be shown in this paper, solar PV and offshore wind are the most promising way s to decarbonize electricity in Japan. Off- river pumped hydro energy storage (PHES) and transmission allow variable 3 generation to be balanced at low cost using mature and reliable technology with abundant availability and low environmental impact8. Due to safety concerns after the Fukushima accident, a consensus has been reached in Japan that dependence on nuclear need s to be minimized9. CCS is still in its demonstration phase, with only 26 operating facilities globally with an annual capacity of 40 million tonnes of CO 210. It is far from ready for mass -deployment in the required timeframe to reach zero emissions in 2050 and f uture costs of CCS are unknown as these early -stage projects provide little information. Japan could rely largely on import ed zero -emissions energy -rich chemicals, such as ammonia produced using hydrogen derived from electrolysis powered by wind and solar in another country . However, the cost i s high because the round -trip efficiency is low ( 25 11) in c onverting renewable electricity to hydrogen, followed by shipment to Japan, and finally re -conversion to electricity . Green hydrogen may be beneficial when utilized occasionally to provide peaking power, but significant cost reductions would be needed for it to contribute large fractions . To this end, d ecarbonizing electricity using renewable energy avoids the safety issues associated with nuclear, and effectively eliminates the need to rely on future developments and cost reductions of CCS and hydrogen tec hnology. Relying on domestic renewable energy resources such as solar and wind also allows Japan to reduce dependence on energy imports, considering that Japan lacks fossil fuel reserves and currently imports most of its fossil and nuclear fuels9. This study focuses on the future electricity system in Japan and addresses the following questions: 1) Does Japan have sufficient renewable energy resources to supply its entire electricity demand? 2) What is the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) of the proposed 100 renewable electricity system? The outcomes of this study are expected to inform policymakers of the potential of domestic renewable energy resources and a n alternative pathway t o decarbonized electricity in Japan . This study also provides information for industry participants and
__label__energy	Highlights PyPSA-Earth. A New Global Open Energy System Optimization Model Demonstrated in Africa. Maximilian Parzen, Hazem Abdel-Khalek, Ekaterina Fedorova, Matin Mahmood, Martha Maria Frysztacki, Johannes Hampp, Lukas Franken, Leon Schumm, Fabian Neumann, Davide Poli, Aristides Kiprakis, Da- vide Fioriti New open energy system model with global coverage and high-resolution data Create model-ready data and integrated energy planning study for any set of countries Novel use of OpenStreetMap network and generation data Africa and Nigeria-speci c data validation and net-zero carbon emission scenarios PyPSA meets Earth: research initiative to foster open data, tools and solversarXiv:2209.04663v1 physics.soc-ph 10 Sep 2022 PyPSA-Earth. A New Global Open Energy System Optimization Model Demonstrated in Africa. Maximilian Parzena, , Hazem Abdel-Khalekb, Ekaterina Fedorovac, Matin Mahmooda, Martha Maria Frysztackie, Johannes Hamppd, Lukas Frankena, Leon Schummh,g, Fabian Neumanng, Davide Polif, Aristides Kiprakisa, Davide Fioritif, aUniversity of Edinburgh, Institute for Energy Systems, EH9 3DW Edinburgh, United Kingdom bFraunhofer Research Institution for Energy Infrastructures and Geothermal Systems IEG, Cottbus, Germany cKutuzovskaya 25 263, 143005, Odintsovo, Moscow region, Russia dJustus-Liebig-University Gie en, Center for international Development and Environmental Research, Gie en, Germany eKarlsruhe Institute of Technology, Institute for Automation and Applied Informatics, 76344 Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany fUniversity of Pisa, Department of Energy, Systems, Territory and Construction Engineering, Largo Lucio Lazzarino, 56122 Pisa, Italy gDepartment of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, Institute of Energy Technology, Technische Universit at Berlin, Fakult at III, Einsteinufer 25 (TA 8), 10587 Berlin, Germany hResearch Center on Energy Transmission and Storage (FENES), Faculty of Electrical and Information Technology, University of Applied Sciences (OTH) Regensburg, Seybothstrasse 2, 93053 Regensburg, Germany Abstract Macro-energy system modelling is used by decision-makers to steer the global energy transition toward an a ordable, sustainable and reliable future. Closed-source models are the current standard for most policy and industry decisions. However, open models have proven to be competitive alternatives that promote science, robust technical analysis, collaboration and transparent policy decision making. Yet, two issues slow the adoption: open models are often designed with limited geographic scope, hindering synergies to collaborate, or are based on low spatially resolved data, limiting their use. Here we introduce PyPSA-Earth, the rst open-source global energy system model with data in high spatial and temporal resolution. It enables large- scale collaboration by providing a tool that can model the world energy system or any subset of it. This work is derived from the European PyPSA-Eur model using new data and functions. It is suitable for operational as well as combined generation, storage and transmission expansion studies. The model provides two main features: (1) customizable data extraction and preparation scripts with global coverage and (2) a PyPSA energy modelling framework integration. The data includes electricity demand, generation and medium to high-voltage networks from open sources, yet additional data can be further integrated. A broad range of clustering and grid meshing strategies help adapt the model to computational and practical needs. A data validation for the entire African continent is performed and the optimization features are tested with a 2060 net-zero planning study for Nigeria. The demonstration shows that the presented developments can build a highly detailed energy system model for energy planning studies to support policy and technical decision- making. We anticipate that PyPSA-Earth can represent an open reference model and we welcome to join forces to address the challenges of the energy transition together. Keywords: Macro-Energy Systems, Optimization, OpenStreetMap, PyPSA-Earth, PyPSA-Africa, PyPSA meets Earth Corresponding authors Email addresses: max.parzen ed.ac.uk (Maximilian Parzen), davide.fioriti unipi.it (Davide Fioriti) Preprint submitted to TBD September 13, 2022 Contents 1 Introduction 3 1.1 Motivation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1.2 Literature analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1.3 Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.4 Organization of the paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 PyPSA-Earth model 5 2.1 Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2.2 Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2.3 PyPSA meets Earth initiative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 3 Data and methods 8 3.1 Work ow management tool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 3.2 Network topology and model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	Time Aggregation Techniques Applied to a Capacity Expansion Model for Real-Life Sector Coupled Energy Systems Mette Gamst1, Stefanie Buchholz2, David Pisinger2 1Energinet, Tonne Kj rsvej 65, 7000 Fredericia, Denmark 2DTU Management, Akademivej 358, 2800 Kgs.Lyngby, Denmark December 21, 2020 Abstract Simulating energy systems is vital for energy planning to understand the e ects of uctuating renewable energy sources and integration of multiple energy sectors. Capacity expansion is a pow- erful tool for energy analysts and consists of simulating energy systems with the option of investing in new energy sources. In this paper, we apply clustering based aggregation techniques from the literature to very di erent real-life sector coupled energy systems. We systematically compare the aggregation techniques with respect to solution quality and simulation time. Furthermore, we propose two new clustering approaches with promising results. We show that the aggregation techniques result in consistent solution time savings between 75 and 90 . Also, the quality of the aggregated solutions is generally very good. To the best of our knowledge, we are the rst to analyze and conclude that a weighted representation of clusters is bene cial. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, we are the rst to recommend a clustering technique with good performance across very di erent energy systems: the k-means with Euclidean distance measure, clustering days and with weighted selection, where the median, maximum and minimum elements from clusters are selected. A deeper analysis of the results reveal that the aggregation techniques excel when the investment decisions correlate well with the overall behavior of the energy system. We propose future research directions to remedy when this is not the case. Keywords: Capacity expansion; energy system models; time aggregation; clustering; solution time reduction 1 Introduction Simulating energy systems is vital for energy planning. The green transition demands increasing introduction of uctuating renewable energy sources and integration of multiple energy sectors. Simulations are necessary to understand the behavior in such sector coupled energy systems. Capacity expansion consists of simulating energy systems with the option of investing in energy sources. This is a very powerful tool to understand the e ects of new technologies. A tremendous amount of work in the literature considers solution methods for the capacity expansion problems but focuses on single methods or speci c energy systems, see e.g. 3,8,9,44 . The contribution of this paper is to recommend a solution approach with overall good performance. It does so by comparing existing and new solution methods on very di erent energy systems. This di ers from the more common approach from the literature of solving the capacity expansion Corresponding author - email: dapi dtu.dk 1arXiv:2012.10244v1 eess.SY 17 Dec 2020 problem for speci c energy systems to perfection. This is further elaborated in the literature review. In this paper, a capacity extension model consists of a year in one-hour resolution, i.e. of 8760 hours. The underlying energy system may consist of many areas (e.g. geographical areas or spot market bidding zones) and energy types (e.g. power, district heating, gas), which results in large capacity extension models. Solving the NP-hard capacity expansion problem is thus time consuming and at times even intractable. Aggregating time steps is a common method to simplify simulations to reach tractability. The literature suggests a wide variety of aggregation techniques. Many studies, however, consider speci c systems 3 and only few contributions compare their results with the literature 9 . The novelty of our work lies in analyzing the e ect of time aggregation methods on the real-life sector coupled energy systems. To the best of our knowledge, we are the rst to apply and compare multiple time aggregation methods on signi cantly di erent energy systems. This provides much insight in the potential of time aggregation techniques without the risk of over tting the methods to speci c energy systems. Furthermore, we propose two new aggregation methods with promising results. All time aggregation techniques are based on clustering. We analyze methods for selecting cluster representatives and conclude that weighted selection has superior performance. Finally, we provide a deeper analysis of the achieved results to highlight interesting future research areas in time aggregation techniques. The paper addresses gaps in the current literature of time aggregation techniques applied to capacity expansion models: comparison of methods on very di erent energy systems, and analysis of selection strategies in the clustering methods. The paper is structured as follows. The literature review in Section 2 introduces the capacity expansion problem, considers aggregation techniques from the literature and concludes with a motivation for the contributions of this paper. The considered aggregation techniques are presented in Section 3 and the real-life energy systems in Section 4. The clustering methods are evaluated on the energy systems in Section 5. The evaluation leads to the proposal of two new aggregation techniques in Section 5.4. Section 6 contains a discussion of lessons learned and of possible future work. Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section 7. 2 Literature review The literature review rst focuses on the capacity expansion problem and afterwards on solution methods for the capacity expansion problem. 2.1 The Capacity Expansion Problem We rst consider the Unit Commitment Problem (UC) and then the Capacity Expansion Prob- lem (CEP). The importance of considering the UC together with the CEP has been quanti ed in several studies, which show that ignoring the operation details from the UC leads to under- estimations in exibility measures and overestimation of base-load and renewable energy sources (RES) 12,21,34 . The Unit Commitment Problem simulates an energy system, where demand must be met every hour 4 . It determines the operation schedule of generating units, subject to demand, technical constraints, available RES, etc 31 . It is NP-hard and includes binary decision variables for turning production units on and o 7 . A general mathematical model for the unit commitment 2 problem can be summarized as: min total system costs (1) s.t. production import storage discharge demand export storage charge (2) physical constraints on production units (3) available RES (4) storage
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Optimised operation of low-emission o shore oil and gas platform integrated energy systems Harald G Svendsen SINTEF Energy Research, Sem S lands vei 11, Trondheim, Norway Abstract This paper considers the operation of o shore oil and gas platform energy sys- tems with energy supply from wind turbines to reduce local CO 2emissions. A new integrated energy system model for operational planning and sim- ulation has been developed and implemented in an open-source software tool (Oogeso). This model and tool is rst presented, and then applied on a rele- vant North Sea case with di erent energy supply alternatives to quantify and compare emission reductions and other key indicators. Keywords: integrated energy system, optimisation, oil and gas, operational planning 1. Introduction O shore oil and gas platforms 1 are typically isolated systems with local energy supply by natural gas turbines. In the past, o shore energy system op- eration and power management systems have relied on the high controllability of gas turbines and an excess of low-cost natural gas fuel, with few incentives to consider alternatives. This is presently changing with the need for CO 2emission reductions due to policy targets, legal limits or high carbon emission taxes. Lo- cal emissions from oil and gas elds come mainly from the combustion of natural gas to supply local energy demand, and to eliminate these emissions, fossil-fuel based gas turbines must be replaced by clean alternatives, such as power from o shore wind, power via cable from shore, shift to hydrogen-based gas turbine fuels, or fuel cells. With new energy supply alternatives, new operating strate- gies are required in order to best utilise the available resources within the given constraints. Better energy e ciency is one way to reduce CO 2emissions. A potential for energy savings and emission reductions up to about 15 20 has been indicated in the literature 2 . Improved e ciency, especially related to production mani- folds and gas compression systems, is important 3 . However, energy e ciency Email address: harald.svendsen sintef.no (Harald G Svendsen) Preprint submitted to Elsevier February 11, 2022arXiv:2202.05072v1 eess.SY 10 Feb 2022 alone can never bring emissions anywhere close to zero. Gas turbines with car- bon capture and storage may be possible 4, 5 , but is unlikely to ever become a practical and economical option for the small gas turbines used on oil and gas platforms. To achieve large CO 2emission reductions, it seems clear that a di erent energy supply is needed. Electric power via cables from shore is an economical option for near-shore installations that reduces emissions by replacing ine cient o shore gas turbines by better alternatives onshore 6 . However, cables are costly, and this approach adds strain on the onshore system in terms of increased power demand and need for grid transmission capacity. Gas turbines running on hydrogen fuels is another alternative being considered 7 , but is not available yet. Electri cation is important, but not the whole solution. A signi cant portion of the energy-demanding equipment on existing o shore installations is mechan- ically supplied via direct drive gas turbines 8 , and switching to electric drives is not straightforward. Moreover, as heat is normally supplied via gas turbine waste heat recovery, a full replacement of the gas turbines requires new systems for heat supply. O shore wind power is an obvious alternative that is already available at commercial scale, and the oil and gas industry has already shown interest in o shore wind power development 9 . Presently, the interest is very high, exem- pli ed by the Hywind Tampen development where an 88 MW wind farm will supply power to the Snorre and Gullfaks oil and gas elds 10 from 2022. A study of the potential for emission reductions through improved opera- tional strategies with hybrid wind and gas power supply to an oil and gas eld has highlighted that the appropriate sizing of the wind power plant is crucial for the cost-e ectiveness of such a hybrid system 11, 12 . The study considered wind energy share up to 40 . Increasing wind power capacity further gives oversupply when the wind is strong, and still lack of power when the wind is not blowing. This is in line with the actual development at Hywind Tampen, where the wind farm capacity does not exceed the power demand, relying on gas turbines to provide balancing and the remaining energy. A study of an oil production platform in the Paci c found an optimal wind penetration level of 57 with resulting emission reduction of 40 , using a mixed-integer linear op- timisation approach 13 . However, it is unclear how wind power variability is accounted for and whether power system stability issues are considered in this study. Electrical stability of oil and gas installations with wind power supply has been studied both for isolated systems 14, 15, 16 and for systems with cable link to shore 17, 18 , with conclusions indicating that such systems can perform well with appropriate energy management and electrical system controls 19 . In systems with large energy supply and demand variability, energy storage may be needed both for energy balancing and for electrical stability 20 . A challenge with high shares of converter interfaced load and generation is that it gives volatile electrical systems with low inertia, requiring new types of control 21, 22 . Alternatively, or in addition, exibility in loads, such as water injection 2 Figure 1: O shore oil and gas platform with isolated energy system supplied partly by wind energy pumps with variable speed drives, can alleviate some of the challenges related to the variability of wind power supply, even stability issues due to short-term wind-induced power uctuations 23 . With a shift away from gas turbines, new energy system operational strate- gies considering all sources of variability and exibility are needed, both for maintaining the security of supply and for keeping operating costs at a mini- mum. This is especially important for electrically isolated
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Field-Programmable Gate Arrays and Quantum Monte Carlo: Power E cient Co-processing for Scalable High-Performance Computing Salvatore Cardamone,1, Jonathan R. Kimmitt,1, 2Hugh G. A. Burton,1and Alex J. W. Thom1 1University Chemical Laboratory, Lens eld Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom 2Department of Computer Science and Technology, William Gates Building, J. J. Thomson Ave, Cambridge CB3 0FD, United Kingdom (Dated: August 8, 2018) Massively parallel architectures o er the potential to signi cantly accelerate an application rel- ative to their serial counterparts. However, not all applications exhibit an adequate level of data and or task parallelism to exploit such platforms. Furthermore, the power consumption associated with these forms of computation renders scaling out for exascale levels of performance incom- patible with modern sustainable energy policies. In this work, we investigate the potential for eld-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) to feature in future exascale platforms, and their capacity to improve performance per unit power measurements for the purposes of scienti c computing. We have focussed our e orts on Variational Monte Carlo, and report on the bene ts of co-processing with an FPGA relative to a purely multicore system. I. INTRODUCTION Quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) encompasses a class of techniques for approximating expectation values to quantum mechanical observables for many-electron systems 1 . By casting the time-independent Schr odinger equation into integral form, the high-dimensional integra- tion intractable through quadrature techniques can be realised through a stochastic sampling of the many- electron wavefunction. Relative to deterministic counterparts, QMC o ers the potential to combine the favourable scaling of mean- eld techniques and the accuracy of post-Hartree Fock methods 2 . Two forms of QMC in particular have gained traction as popular ab initio methodologies 3 : Varia- tional Monte Carlo (VMC) and Di usion Monte Carlo (DMC). Commonly, VMC is used to variationally op- timise free parameters in the wavefunction, with DMC being subsequently applied to compute production level observables for the molecular system in question. Prior to the failure of Dennard scaling 4 , application developers were able to indulge in a free lunch , whereby they could exploit the continual increase in processor clock frequencies with new generations of hardware to directly accelerate an application. Since on-chip power densities no longer scale down with tran- sistor density, manufacturers instead look towards heat dissipation technologies in an e ort to accommodate Moore s law 5 . However, such techniques have limita- tions and eventually require manufacturers to reduce on-chip voltages, forecasted to eventually culminate in an era of dark silicon 6 . To address the unsustainability of frequency scaling, the tendency has been for new generations of hardware to increase the number of parallel compute units on a single chip. As a result, the onus falls onto the software sc2018 cam.ac.ukdeveloper to exploit either operations or tasks that can be undertaken in parallel within an application. Further- more, with the advent of distributed memory systems and graphical processing units (GPUs) at contemporary high-performance computing (HPC) facilities, the soft- ware developer has an enormous arsenal of hardware solutions for exploiting parallelism within an application. For QMC methodologies, the associated embarrassing parallelism lends itself well to modern parallel architec- tures. There is a signi cant body of work demonstrating the near-linear scaling of performance with respect to the available hardware concurrency 7, 8 . More recently, GPUs have been utilised as co-processors to deliver impressive performance gains 9 . However, scaling out is not a sustainable solution to simulating increasingly complex systems. The power consumption associated with distributed memory systems and GPUs does not align with modern energy policies. Indeed, a consensus appears to have emerged 10 12 that the power con- sumption of HPC is one of the most prodigious barriers to attaining exascale levels of performance. Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) are appeal- ing candidates as processing units for novel exascale platforms 13, 14 . These devices combine low power con- sumption with the capacity to exploit both data and task parallelism, and are therefore applicable to a wider set of applications than solutions relying on data parallelism alone. To date, use of FPGAs in electronic structure theory has been somewhat limited, although several works demonstrate the power of this platform to ac- celerate scienti c applications within this domain. 15, 16 In this work, we look to port the compute-intensive portions of a VMC calculation to an FPGA and assess the performance relative to a CPU-bound application. We elaborate on the optimisations incorporated into our design to optimise the implementation for the purposes of co-processing. Finally, we demonstrate that our appli-arXiv:1808.02402v1 physics.comp-ph 7 Aug 2018 2 cation bene ts from the use of FPGAs in terms of both raw compute performance and power consumption. II. VARIATIONAL MONTE CARLO The following section is not intended to present an ex- haustive exposition of techniques within QMC. Rather, the reader is directed to the excellent review of Foulkes and coworkers 1 for further details. A. Implementation Consider a molecular system comprising Nnuclei and nelectrons, where Randrdenote their collective po- sition vectors respectively. The time-independent elec- tronic wavefunction of this system is represented by (r;R), where the parametric dependence on Rarises from the application of the Born Oppenheimer approx- imation. Expanding ( r;R) in terms of the exact (or- thonormalised) eigenfunctions of the molecular Hamilto- nian, H(r;R), the energy of the system is determined by the expectation value h H(r;R)i . Alternative (time- independent) physical quantities can be obtained by sub- stituting the molecular Hamiltonian for the appropriate corresponding operator. From the variational principle it can be shown that for any approximate wavefunction, T(r;R), referred to as the trial wavefunction , the expectation value h H(r;R)i T, provides an upper bound to the true en- ergy of the system. Consequently, the variational prin- ciple provides an important metric for quantifying the quality of an approximate trial wavefunction, with lower energies implying a higher quality wavefunction. Herein, all explicit functional dependencies are omitted unless a new quantity is introduced. Through the time-independent Schr odinger equation, the energy associated
__label__energy	Graphical abstract Energy System Model New value assessment method Market Potential Method to guide energy storage innovation Highlights Review of evaluation methods for energy storage identiﬁes need for new approaches. Formulation of new market-potential method to identify value of storage. Pitfalls of cost approaches are identiﬁed in an European electricity system. Increasing storage design-freedom impacts technology value and system beneﬁt. The market-potential-method is useful for research and industry. 1arXiv:2101.10092v5 eess.SY 11 Jul 2022 Beyond cost reduction: Improving the value of energy storage in electricity systems. Maximilian Parzena,1, , Fabian Neumannb, Adriaan H. Van Der Weijdec, Daniel Friedricha, Aristides Kiprakisa aUniversity of Edinburgh, Institute for Energy Systems, EH9 3DW Edinburgh, United Kingdom bTechnische Universit at Berlin, Department of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, 10587 Berlin, Germany cThe Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientiﬁc Research (TNO), 2595, DA, The Hague, The Netherlands Abstract From a macro-energy system perspective, an energy storage is valuable if it contributes to meeting system objectives, including increasing economic value, reliability and sustainability. In most energy systems models, reliability and sustainability are forced by constraints, and if energy demand is exogenous, this leaves cost as the main metric for economic value. Traditional ways to im- prove storage technologies are to reduce their costs; however, the cheapest energy storage is not always the most valuable in energy systems. Modern techno-economical evaluation methods try to address the cost and value situation but do not judge the compet- itiveness of multiple technologies simultaneously. This paper introduces the market potential method as a new complementary valuation method guiding innovation of multiple energy storage. The market potential method derives the value of technologies by examining common deployment signals from energy system model outputs in a structured way. We apply and compare this method to cost evaluation approaches in a renewables-based European power system model, covering diverse energy storage technologies. We ﬁnd that characteristics of high-cost hydrogen storage can be more valuable than low-cost hydrogen storage. Additionally, we show that modifying the freedom of storage sizing and component interactions can make the energy system 10 cheaper and impact the value of technologies. The results suggest looking beyond the pure cost reduction paradigm and focus on developing technologies with suitable value approaches that can lead to cheaper electricity systems in future. Keywords: Battery, Hydrogen, Energy storage, Energy system modelling, Techno-economic analysis, Technology development 1. Introduction In the face of global ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the energy transition characterised by increasing shares of wind and solar power will beneﬁt from more energy storage in the future electricity system 1 3 . How many ben- eﬁts can be delivered by energy storage depends, among oth- ers, on how future technology will be designed. Consequently, research and development (R D) must evaluate the techno- economic design of energy storage systems to be most bene- ﬁcial. A traditional technology evaluation approach is to reduce the cost of its devices 4 . For energy storage, these costs can be deﬁned as absolute costs ( e), or relative to energy ( e kWh) or power ( e kW) quantities. In particular, in the material science and chemistry literature, cost reductions of energy storage are a pivotal element, alongside maintaining other storage charac- teristics such as a su cient high e ciency, power and energy density, and safety 5, 6 . Though, what is su cient high is often unclear. Only if one energy storage outperforms the other in all characteristics it represents a superior technology; oth- erwise, more expensive energy storage with suitable technical characteristics can compete as well (as will be demonstrated in Section 4). Similar, evaluation techniques exist that aim to max- imise the proﬁt, however, these are mostly suitable to evaluate Corresponding author. Email address: max.parzen ed.ac.uk (Maximilian Parzen )single projects (see review in Section 2). Fortunately, material science literature has recognised one of the key challenges that energy storage depends on di erent applications and the inter- action with the energy system 7 . Alternative technology evaluation approaches use energy system models. These tools describe energy systems mathe- matically and capture system-values arising from storage inter- actions with the wider energy system (see Section 2 for more details). Some studies applying energy system models focus on storage technology evaluation and guidance. For instance, 8 explores the design spaces for long-duration energy stor- age, 2, 3, 9 explore the system-value of generic storage tech- nologies and 10 explores technology speciﬁc system-values of liquid-air energy storage and pumped-thermal electricity stor- age. A limitation of these studies is that counterfactual scenar- ios constrain this analysis type to single generic or rigid storage examples making the evaluation results questionable. This study introduces as technology evaluation approach the market potential method which can be described as systematic deployment assessment. Di erent to classical market poten- tials that are derived from energy system models which quantify mainly system e ects 11 , we focus on the systematic assess- ment of market potentials to evaluate energy storage technolo- gies (see Section 3.1). This approach overcomes the previously described limitations and simultaneously analyses multiple and more-ﬂexibly sized energy storage. As we will see later in Sec- tion 4, reﬂecting competitive situations and unique constraint Preprint submitted to arXiv:2101.10092 eess.SY July 12, 2022 demand and supply mismatches in macro-energy systems are important factors that can a ect the system-value of energy storage. The contribution of this paper to existing literature is as fol- lows: We review and discuss techno-economic approaches that are currently used to evaluate and compare energy stor- age technology in Section 2. We include cost, proﬁt and system-values analysis. We show that current cost metrics can be misleading for technology design decisions. Section 4.2 and 4.3 show that a high levelised cost of storage (LCOS) hydrogen storage can be equally or even more valuable than a low LCOS one from the system perspective. We draw this conclu- sion by observing the deployment of low and high LCOS hydrogen storage systems in a least-cost power system in- vestment planning model. We extend system-value
__label__energy	1 Italy 100 Renewable: A Suitable Energy Transition Roadmap Francesco Meneguzzo,a Rosaria Ciriminna,b Lorenzo Albanese,b Mario Pagliarob aIstituto di Biometeorologia, CNR, via G. Caproni 8, 45045 Firenze, Italy; bIstituto per lo Studio dei Materiali Nanostrutturati, CNR, via Ugo La Malfa 153, 90146 Palermo, Italy Abstract We outline a realistic energy transition roadmap for Italy, in which the whole energy demand is met by electricity generated by low cost renewable energy technologies, namely solar photovoltaic, wind and hydroelectric power. We assess the amount of extra power and storage capacity to be installed along with costs, return on investment and payback time. Based on cost, renewable nature and scalability, storage in energy dense polysaccharides enzymatically synthesized from carbon dioxide, water and surplus electricity is proposed to meet the significant storage requirements. Keywords: Solar energy; Italy; energy transition; 100 renewable; storage Corresponding authors Dr. F. Meneguzzo Istituto di Biometeorologia, CNR via G. Caproni 8 45045 Firenze (Italy) E-mail: francesco.meneguzzo cnr.it Dr. M. Pagliaro Istituto per lo Studio dei Materiali Nanostrutturati, CNR via U. La Malfa 153 90146 Palermo PA (Italy) E-mail: mario.pagliaro cnr.it 2 1 Introduction The dramatic increase of renewable energy generation across the world which occurred in the last decade has been so significant and rapid that, for short periods of time, the electricity demand of whole industrial countries has been temporarily met by means of renewable energy, notably wind, hydro and photovoltaic power. For instance, as of May 15, 2016 (a Sunday) at 2 pm local time when demand in Germany was 45.8 GW renewable energies covered around 82 of power demand.1 Since about 2008, scholars,2 energy analysts3 and environmental groups4 started to investigate the feasibility of a full transition from fossil to renewable energy. The most radical energy transition scenario was likely proposed by Jacobson and Delucchi in 2009 by investigating the feasibility of transitioning entire countries by 2030 to energy systems powered exclusively by wind, water and sunlight.5 The team calculated the number of onshore and offshore wind, photovoltaic (PV, on rooftops and utility scale), concentrated solar power (CSP), geothermal power, tidal and wave power, and existing hydroelectric generators needed to power each country based on the 2050 power demand after all energy end uses (namely electricity, heating and cooling, and transport) have been electrified. In detail, to supply the world with 100 renewable energy (electricity and electrolytic hydrogen) would require 3.8 million 5-MW wind turbines, 40,000 300-MW central solar plants, 40,000 300-MW solar PV plants, 1.7 billion 3-kW rooftop PV installations, 5,350 100-MW geothermal plants, 270 new 1.3-GW hydro stations, 720,000 0.75-MW wave devices, and 490,000 1-MW tidal turbines. Smil has remarked the scope of such a transition noting that, according to this scenario, in just fifteen years the overall installed capacities would have to increase 30-fold for wind, 100-fold for geothermal power and 500-fold for tidal power, with 40,000 new large (300 MW) PV plants and nearly 50,000 new CSP plants, as well as more than 700,000 wave-conversion projects.6 3 For decades, critics of renewable energy lamented their unsustainably high cost.7 Since the early 2000s, however, PV8 and wind9 energy are experiencing a largely unexpected global growth (178 GW of solar PV and 433 GW of wind power installed across the world by 2015), which has led the cost of clean electricity to such low levels to go below that of electricity obtained by burning coal ( 2.3c kWh in a in an auction by Abu Dhabi for a 350MW solar plant as of September 2016).10 A similar trend has occurred for the commonly neglected solar thermal technology, with solar heating contribution in meeting global energy demand second only to wind power among renewable energy sources (341 TWh of energy supplied in 2014 mainly as hot water vs 200 TWh of electricity supplied by PV modules across the world).11 Critics of renewable energy today preferably advocate the much lower quality 12 of renewable energy whose intermittent nature would pose insurmountable economic problems to the grid reliability. For example, while convening that it would be technically possible to meet total electricity demand from renewable energy sources, Trainer argues that this would be unaffordable due to the amount of redundant plants needed to cope with intermittency.13 However, wind and solar energy complement each other on intraday and seasonal scales (continental wind energy tends to peak at night, solar during the day, while the wind blows during winter and stormy days when solar modules produce little electricity). The higher the number of wind turbines and solar panels connected to the grid, and the more geographically distributed across a territory, the less volatile is the combined output of all individual generators, smoothing out renewable energy fluctuations on a second-by-second basis.14 Neither Germany, Spain nor Italy, for example, faced particular grid problems when a large amount of solar PV and wind power was installed in the 2005-2015 decade. In this study, we evaluate the full transition of Italy to renewable energy by the year 2050. We adopt a realistic approach, which starts from the very awareness that 4 production, installation, and maintenance of wind turbines and PV modules remains critically dependent on specific fossil energies ;15 while so far the fastest historical sector-specific energy transitions observed was 30 years, though energy transitions involving all sectors have taken much longer.16 The outcomes of this work will be useful to policy makers and energy stakeholders called by energy and environmental urgencies to accelerate the transition to renewable energy. 5 2 Current scenario The set of data and their respective sources listed in Table 1 include the relevant information about the Italian energy system. Table 1. Italy s energy datasets and sources Dataset Period and frequency Unit Source Energy consumption by sourcea 1965-2015 Annual MTOE BP17 Power capacity by source (excl. hydroelectric) Hydroelectric capacity by type 1999-2015 Annual MW GSE18 Electricity consumption 2014-2015 Hourly TWh Terna19 Intermittent generation from RES, by source 2014-2015 Hourly TWh Terna20 Oil consumption for transportation 2014-2015 Monthly MTOE MISE21 aThe electricity consumption in units of TWh is converted into
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	1 Sectoral and spatial decomposition methods for multi -sector capacity expansion models Federico Parolin a,b, Yu Wengb, Paolo Colbertaldo a, Ruaridh Macdonald b a. Department of Energy, Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy b. MIT Energy Initiative, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA , USA Abstract Multi -sector capacity expansion models play a crucial role in energy planning by providing decision support for policymaking in technology development . To ensure reliable support , these models require high technological, spatial, and temporal resolution, leading to l arge-scale linear programming problems that are often computationally intractable. To address this challenge, conventional approaches rely on simplifying abstractions that trade accuracy for computational efficiency . Benders decomposition has been widely explored to improve computati onal efficiency in electricity capacity expansion models. Specifically, s tate-of-the-art methods have primarily focused on improving performance through temporal decomposition . However, multi -sector models introduce additional complexity, requiring new decomposition strategies. In this work, we propose a budget -based formulation to extend decomposition to the sectoral and spatial domain s. We test the developed sectoral and spatial Benders decomposition algorithms on case studies of the continental United States , considering different configurations in terms of spatial and temporal resolution. Results show that our algorithms achieve substantial performance improvement compared to existing decomposition algorithms , with runtime reductions within 15 -70 . The proposed methods leverag e the generic structure of multi -sector capacity expansion models , and can thus be applied to most existing energy planning models , ensuring computational tractability without sacrificing resolution . Keywords Benders d ecomposition, Energy system modelling, Linear Programming, Energy planning , OR in energy. Highlights We apply Benders decomposition to multi -sector capacity expansion models We develop sectoral and spatial Benders decomposition algorithms The algorithms achieve 15 -70 faster runtimes that existing decomposition methods 2 1. Introduction Capacity expansion models (CEMs) are essential tools to support policymakers in the design of technically feasible and cost -effective decarbonisation strategies (Savvidis et al., 2019) . Most CEMs are formulated as deterministic linear programming (LP) problems, with runtime and memory usage scal ing quadratically with model size (Ringkjøb et al., 2018) . The urgency of climate action and the need for economy -wide decarbonisation have driven researchers to develop increasingly complex capacity expansion models , incorporating multiple sectors (Chang et al., 2021) , increasing the spatial resolution (Xiong et al., 2024) , and extending the time horizon to several years (Bhatt, 2025; Ruggles et al., 2024) . As a result, modern capacity expansion models risk computational intractability, requiring the introduction of substantial abstractions (A. F. Jacobson et al., 2024) . One of the most common approach es to limit computational complexity is temporal aggregation (Hoffmann et al., 2020) , which consists of reducing the number of modelled time steps by aggregating input time series into representative periods (Prina et al., 2020) . While temporal aggregation enables significant reduction of the computational load (Kotzur et al., 2018) , it has been shown to introduce non - negligible errors (Fleschutz et al., 2025) . Nonetheless , many studies heav ily rely on temporal aggregation (Ringkjøb et al., 2018) . For example, Larson et al. (2021) model a 35 -year transition of the United States using 8 snapshots , each modelled with 28 representative days, covering 2 of the total time horizon . Similarly, the clustering of geographic areas into large zones is frequently used to limit the problem size and complexity (Hoffmann et al., 2024; Javanmardi et al., 2025) . However , high spatial resolution has been shown to be critical for identif ying transmission bottlenecks and account ing for variable renewable availability (Sahin et al., 2024) . While these simplifications improve computational tractability, they can significantly impact model accuracy , limiting the validity and generalisability of results (A. F. Jacobson et al., 2024) . In addition, CEMs may remain intractable even with the implement ation of such simplifications, due to the large scale of the problems they address . The use of decomposition methods is a common alternative approach to enable solving of complex models, reducing the need to introduce abstractions. Among these, Benders Decomposition (BD) is a widely used approach that separates investment decisions from operational dispatch decisions (Benders, 1962) . As schematised in Figure 1, BD iteratively solves two optimisation problems: an upper problem which determines investment decisions, and a lower problem which optimises operational decisions over a planning horizon, fixing investment decisions as resulting from the upper problem so lution. The lower problem is solved to generate linear inequalities (i.e., constraints) typically referred to as cuts , which are added to the upper problem. Typically, the lower problem represents a year of operation with hourly resolution. Figure 1. Generic block structure of a monolithic capacity expansion model (a) and schematised structure of Benders decomposition (b). Orange blocks corresponds to operational decisions for a zone generator in the relative time step. Investment decisionst1 t2 t3 t4 t5VariablesConstraintsInvestment decisions t1t2t3t4t5Upper problem Lower problemInformation (solution )Feedback (cuts)a) Monolithic capacity expansion model b) Benders decomposition 3 Recent studies have explored various refinements and applications of BD to improve the computational efficiency of energy system models. Lara et al. (2018) applied BD to multi -period electric infrastructure planning, decomposing the planning horizon into time periods, so that the lower problem is further divided into a set of subproblems, each corresponding to a planning period. The presence of multiple subpr oblems instead of a single lower problem is generally beneficial for convergence, as their solution enables the generation of multiple cuts at each iteration. In the work by Lara et al., however, subproblems represent an entire year of operation, still requiring temporal aggregation to manage the computational complexity. In their application, temporal coverage is limited to 12 typical days per year. Li et al. (2022) further refined this approach by aggregating complicating variables into a single upper problem, enabling independent solution of subproblems. Nevertheless, tractability issues persist for subproblems, requiring temporal aggregation with a maximum resoluti on of 15 typical days
__label__energy	1 Abstract This document presents an introduction of two commonly used power system differential algebraic equations for studying electromechanical oscillation and transient stability. Two types of generator models are use d to formulate the power syste m model, respectively: the second-order classical model and the fourth-order generator model. An example is provided on the IEEE 9-bus system. Index Terms Power system model, differential algebraic equations. I. INTRODUCTION O W E R s y s t e m s a r e n o n l i n e a r d y n a m i c s y s t e m s , w h o s e behaviors are usually modeled by differential-algebraic equations (DAEs). The algebraic equations describe the network connectivity and its parameters, coordinate transformations used for generator equations, and some static elements, e.g. static loads. The differential equations describ e the behaviors of all dynamic elements, including generators and their control systems, dynamic loads and FACTs (flexible alternating current transmission systems) devices. The study of a general power system model might be difficult and unnecessary, since the time constants for differe nt dynamic elements are quite different, ranging from 10 -4s, e.g. the switching time constant of power electronic devices like FACTs, to 101s, e.g. the governor system of generators. Thus, for a specific study purpose, a comment handling is to consider the fast and slow dynamics separately, which means only part of the equations corresponding to the elements with interesting behaviors will be remained. In particular, for studying the electromechanical oscillation and transient stability a power system, equations associated with generator, exciter and governor models are usually remained. For simplicity, this document will only cover the generator model and point out where to add the state variables when considering the exciter and governor models, and all load are in constant impedance model (a static model). Two basic state variables of a generator are the rotor angle δ and the rotor speed ω. For any stable power system, the rotor angles of all generators are close to each other but constantly changing at a certain synchronized speed frequency which is slightly floating around 60Hz 50Hz. Since only the relative motions among different angles are of concern when analyzing the oscillation or stability, a rotating coordinate system at t he synchronized speed frequency is commonly used to represent the system equations, where the rotor speed Δ ω is zero and rotor B. Wang, Y. Liu and K. Sun are with the University of Tennessee , Knoxville, TN 37996 USA (e-mails: bwang13 vols.utk.edu, yliu161 vols.utk.edu, kaisun utk.edu). angle Δδ is a constant for each generator at the system equilibrium. The rest of the document is based on the rotating coordinate system. The generator can be modeled to different detailed levels for different purposes of study. This document introduces the power system DAEs with either the simplest generator model, i.e. second-order classical model, or the fourth-order model. II. P OWER SYSTEM DIFFERENTIAL -ALGEBRAIC EQUATIONS A. With classical generator model The classical generator model is a second-order differential equation with two state variables: δ and ω. The DAEs of a power system with m-generator are: 1 1 2is i im i e i i i iPP DH where δi and ωi are the rotor angle and rotor speed derivation from the nominal value of generator i, respectively; Pei is the electric power of generator i, which is a function of all rotor angles and network parameters; H i a n d Di a r e i n e r t i a a n d damping constants of generator i, respectively; Pmi is the mechanical power of generator i; ωs is the synchronized frequency of the system. The expression of Pei is: 11 110 sin cos cos sin ,,, , ,, , , , cos sinxi ii yi qi ii T tx y x m y m T xy x my m xi xi qi i ai di yi yi qi i di ai ei xi xi yi yie e e Ii i i i Ye e e e ei e RX ei e XR Pe ie i 2 where e qi is the field voltage of generator i w h i c h c a n b e calculated from the initial condition of the system; e xi and e yi are the internal bus voltages of generator i in the non-rotating coordinate; Yi i s t h e ith row of the admittance matrix of the reduced network, see Appendix A, including source impedances of generators and constant-impedance loads; I ti is the terminal current of generator i; Rai and X di are the source impedance of generator i; exi and exi are terminal voltages for x Power System Differentia l-Algebraic Equations Bin Wang, Yang Liu and Kai Sun P 2 and y axes of generator i. Note that Y matrix is a constant matrix, see proof in Appendix C. B. With fourth-order generator model The forth-order generator model is a fourth-order differential equation with four state variables: δ, ω, e q and e d. The DAEs of a power system with m-generator are 1 : 0 01 2 3 1() 1()is i im i e i i i i qi fdi di di di qi di di qi qi qi di qiPP DH eE X X i eT eX X i eT where δi, ωi, e qi a n d e di are the rotor angle, rotor speed derivation from the nominal value, transient voltages along q and d axes respectively of generator i; Pei, idi a n d iqi a r e t h e electric power, stator currents of q and d axes respectively of generator i, which are functions of all rotor angles and network parameters; Hi and Di a r e i n e r t i a a n d d a m p i n g c o n s t a n t s o f generator i;
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	A Soft-Switching Single -Stage AC -DC Converter Farid Naghavi Electrical and Computer Engineering Departmenr Texas A M University College Station, TX farid tamu.edu Hamid Toliyat Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Texas A M University College Station, TX toliyat tamu.edu Abstract Partial resonance high frequency AC link converters are recognized to provide soft -switching, sing le-stage power conversion. They are highly reliable due to elimination of DC capacitors. Previous work has focused on proof of concept topologies and design requirements. In this work, a current regulated AC -DC converter from this family of converters is presented. The control design and grid integration requirements are discussed . An active damping method using grid current feedback is implemented to mitigate the filter resonance oscillations. The current control is implemented in the synchronous frame using voltage oriented control which enable power factor and power flow control. The result of converter operation and its control loops performances are presented. Keywords Resonance converter , voltage oriented control , active damping , grid-connected re ctifier, PFC I. INTRODUCTION (HEADING 1) Active rectifiers or AC DC converters are widely used in battery chargers, motor drives, renewable energy systems, microgrids, active filters , and solid state transformer 1 10 . These converter have certain advantage s compared to passive rectifiers such as power factor control, lower current THD, power flow control and output voltage regulation 1 , 6 , 11 - 12 . Typical topologies used for active AC DC rectifiers are buck -type, boost -type and the voltage source rectifier (VSR) 6 , 11 - 13 and c urrent source rectifiers (CSR) 7 , 13 , 14 . In a VSR, t he output voltage level is limited by the li ne-line voltage of the input meaning that f or high voltage ratios, a D C-DC converter should be use d to change the voltage level 11 , 12 , 15 - 16 . If isolation is required, an isolated DC -DC converter or a line transformer can be used. 4 , 5 , 1 1 , 12 , 20 , which result i n a multi -stage solution which become s complex in design and control. Each stage has to be highly efficient for the system to achieve a high efficiency as the series connection of stages can deteriorate the efficiency . Partial resonance high frequency AC link converter perform the power conv ersion in a single stage. They have the ability to buck or boos the voltage. In addition by taking advantage of partial resonance of an AC link soft-switching is achieved . Soft- switching is achieved for all the operating points of the converter without any limitations. Furthermore, due to the elimination of DC electrolytic capacitors they are highly reliable. Isolation is provided by means of a high frequency transformer (Fig. 1) . Previous work 2 1 - 26 have mostly focused on proof of concept topologies an d design guidelines for this family of converters however, this paper focuses on the current regulation implementation and grid -connection process for an AC DC converter . Common control methods for AC DC converters are Voltage -oriented control (VOC) and di rect power control (DPC) 1 , 1 7 - 18 . In VOC, the active and reactive power are controlled indirectly by controlling the current. When the current and voltage vectors are in phase, unity p ower factor is achieved 1 , 1 8 . The internal current controlle r can be implemented using PR controller in stationary frame or using a PI controller i n the synchronous frame 4 , 19 . In DPC, active and reactive power are calculated using the voltage and current measurements and the converter is controlled using a hy steresis or bang -bang controller and a switching table to directly control active and rea ctive power 1 , 17 - 18 . Fig. 1, shows an AC Link AC -DC converter. The AC Link converter employs a CL filter on the input to mitigate current harmonics generated by switching of the converter and also to facilitate soft switching . Due to the low damping of the CL filter resonance oscillations and instabilities can occur due to low. An active damping control or virtual impedance 14 , 27 - 29 has been implemented to solve this problem. The active damping loop, increases the damping of the filter by modifying the converter reference current without physically adding a resistor to the filter. Fig. 1 AC-DC AC Link converter The rest of this paper is organized as follows: T he converter s principles o f operation is discussed in section II, t he current control and active damping loop are analyzed in section III and IV . The results are report in section V and section V I conclude the paper. II. AC LINK RECTIFIER OPERATION PRINCIPLES The partial resonance AC l ink AC -DC converter utilizes reverse -blocking switches similar to a current -source converter. The AC link consists of the magnetizing inductance of the transformer (L M) and the link capacitors (C 1 and C 2). The magnetizing inductance charges through the inp ut phases and then disconnected from the input. A resonance circuit is formed by the magnetizing inductance and the link capacitors but th e resonance is only allowed to happen partially and the stored energy in the magn etizing inductance is discharged into the output at appropriate times. A. Switch Controller The converter s switches are controlled through a sequencer that generates the gate si gnals based on the link current, link voltage, input reference currents and output reference current. The switch controller in essence maintains the input and output energy balance for every link cycle . The input references and the output reference are generated by the higher level current controller (Fig. 4). The switch controller commands when to start and end each mode of operation based on the current and voltage measurements in order to satisfy the conditions for soft switching. The operation modes of the
__label__energy	Capturing Chronology and Extreme Values of Representative Days for Planning of Transmission Lines and Long-Term Energy Storage Systems Mojtaba Moradi-Sepahvand Department of Electrical Sustainable Energy Delft University of Technology Delft, The Netherlands m.moradisepahvand tudelft.nlSimon H. Tindemans Department of Electrical Sustainable Energy Delft University of Technology Delft, The Netherlands s.h.tindemans tudelft.nl Abstract The growing penetration of renewable energy sources (RESs) is inevitable to reach net zero emissions. In this regard, optimal planning and operation of power systems are becoming more critical due to the need for modeling the short-term variability of RES output power and load demand. Considering hourly time steps of one or more years to model the operational details in a long-term expansion planning scheme can lead to a practically unsolvable model. Therefore, a clustering- based hybrid time series aggregation algorithm is proposed in this paper to capture both extreme values and temporal dynamics of input data by some extracted representatives. The proposed method is examined in a complex co-planning model for transmission lines, wind power plants (WPPs), short-term battery and long-term pumped hydroelectric energy storage systems. The effectiveness of proposed mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) model is evaluated using a modified 6-bus Garver test system. The simulation results confirm the proposed model efficacy, especially in modeling long-term energy storage systems. Index Terms Energy Storage System, Representative Time Period, Transmission Expansion Planning, Time Series Aggrega- tion, Wind Power Plant. I. I NTRODUCTION THE increasing penetration of intermittent renewable en- ergy sources (RESs) makes it necessary to deal with the variability of their output power. Energy storage systems (ESSs) are able to store electrical energy during off-peak time periods and supply load demand in peak or emergency periods. In this regard, ESS can be used as an effective solution to increase the operational flexibility of power systems by minimizing load and RES curtailment and providing both intra- and inter-period arbitrage. ESSs can relieve congestion in transmission lines and defer new investment in both trans- mission lines and generation units. Therefore, in many recent power system expansion studies, ESSs are incorporated as a solution option to optimize the expansion schemes 1 5 . In fact, according to the international energy agency (IEA) report, the two-degrees global warming scenario requires 450 GW installed ESS by 2050 6 . This work is part of the project Heuristic Efficient Proxy-based Planning of Integrated Energy Systems (HEPPIE), funded by Réseau de Transport d Électricité (RTE).In a large-scale power system expansion planning model with different modern planning options, both the investment and operation of system should be evaluated, so the investment decisions rely on the temporal data used for modeling the operational details. Considering all time steps for each year in a long-term expansion planning problem will result in a practically unsolvable model. With this in mind, time series aggregation (TSA) methods can be utilized to capture the variability of load demand and RES output power in an expansion planning model 7 . By using TSA, the temporal data are aggregated into some limited representative time pe- riods, aiming to reduce the temporal complexity of long-term expansion models while capturing the short-term variability as much as possible. An important challenge in the representative time period extraction process and optimization modeling is incorporating inter-period cycles of long-term ESSs that can take several weeks or months, like pumped hydroelectric and power-to-gas storage technologies. This challenge is usually ignored when only short-term battery ESSs (BESSs) with intra-day cycles are considered. In this regard, a proper method is required to precisely capture the chronology of input data through the final extracted representative time periods, and to efficiently represent these in the optimization model. In addi- tion to the chronology of data, extreme values or transitions in the input data that drive the constraints of the expansion planning model must be preserved by the TSA method 8 . In 3 a k-means clustering algorithm, and in 4 a hierar- chical clustering method is used to extract some representative days (RDs) for operational variability capturing in trans- mission expansion planning (TEP) model considering BESS. Neither the k-means nor the hierarchical clustering method directly captures the chronology between representative time periods. In this regard, in 2 a chronological time-period clustering (CTPC) method, which is mainly based on the agglomerative hierarchical Ward s method 9 , is presented. CTPC can capture the chronology of time periods by itera- tively comparing and merging the adjacent clusters. In both 1 and 5 CTPC is utilized to capture the uncertainties of load demand and RES considering short-term BESS. In 1 anarXiv:2310.04244v1 eess.SY 6 Oct 2023 integrated TEP and generation expansion planning structure, and in 5 a hurricane-resilient TEP model is proposed. In 5 and 10 the CTPC method is improved in terms of capturing more data chronology and extreme values by developing the algorithm as a multi-stage procedure. A multi-stage CTPC (MCTPC) algorithm is proposed in 10 to capture different seasonality of time series in power system expansion studies. However, the proposed MCTPC in 10 is effective mostly for time series with a certain daily, weekly, or monthly pattern like load demand. To improve the effectiveness of CTPC in terms of capturing extreme values, a priority-based CTPC (PCTPC) method was introduced in 11 in which extreme values are defined as maximum values of load and minimum values of RESs. However, there is no guarantee that the extracted extreme values in 11 are the maximum values of net-load, which are expected to drive generation investments to avoid load shedding. In 8 a demand-oriented spectral clustering method is presented for extracting RDs considering net-load and ramp of net-load duration curve as feature vectors. An- other solution to capture the chronology of data is utilizing system states 12 . By considering extracted system states, different hours with similar features can be compacted in the same sequential time periods based on the closest system state. This procedure leads to a high computational burden due to the high number of sequential time periods 13 . In 13 several TSA methods are compared and
__label__energy	1 Abstract The possibility for hydrocarbon fluids to migrate through debonded micro -annuli wells is a major concern in the petroleum industry. With effective permeability of 0.1 1.0 m D, the e xistence of channels in a cement annulus with apertures of 10 300 µm constitutes a major threat. Squeeze cement is typically difficult to repair channels -leakage with small apertures; hence, a low -viscosity sealer that can be inserted into these channels w hile producing a long -term resilient seal is sought. A novel application using nano -silica sealants could be the key to seal these channels. In the construction and sealing of hydrocarbon wells, cementing is a critical phase. Cement is prone to cracking during the life cycle of a well because of the changes in downhole conditions. The usage of micro -sized cross -linked nano -silica gel as a seala nt material to minimize damaged cement sheaths is investigated in this study. Fluid leakage through channels in the cement was investigated using an experimental system. With a diameter of 0.05 inches, the impact of the cement channel size was explored. Th e sealing efficiency increased from 86 percent to 95 percent when the nano -silica concentration of the sealing gel increased from 13 percent to 25 percent. This demonstrates that the concentration of nano -silica in the sealing gel affects the gel s ability to seal against fluid flow . This research proposes a new way for improving cement zonal isolation and thereby lowering the impact of cement failure in the oil and gas industry. Introduction Cementing engineering is one of the most important issues in the drilling operations, which operates in tough and challenging settings with temperature and pressure restrictions (Wojtanowicz et al., 2016). When a well fails, various factors come into play, including leakage, cementing, and so on. In this scenario, a variety of solutions can successfully improve industrial processes, with a focus on cement characteristics, crack sealing, shielding permeability reduction, gas migration management, and so on. During hydrocarbon production, external influences such as tem perature and pressure cause the well cement to fracture, allowing fluid to leak at the wellbore contact (Dusseault et al, 2014). As a result, the leak has a substantial influence on the ecology, putting oil workers and other aquatic wildlife s safety in j eopardy (Davies et al, 2014). Cement is prone to cracking during the life of the well because of changes in downhole environment. During drilling or production operations, the cement integrity must never be jeopardized. If the cement is not properly finis hed and abandoned, leaks can occur at any time during the well s life (Watson and Bachu, 2009). Fluids (water or hydrocarbons) can move through channels within the cement or between the cement and its environment. These channels form when the wellbore inte grity is compromised, allowing formation fluids to travel between formations and or from the formation to the surface. Personnel and the environment are put at risk when water, gases, and hydrocarbon substances leak through cement routes (Davies et al., 20 14). Mechanical failures as a result of pressure and temperature cycles, chemical degradation owing to corrosive formation fluids (Zhang and Bachu, 2010), or inappropriate slurry design can all provide leakage paths in the cement annulus. The use of low-density slurries, which may allow formation fluids to create channels within the cement sheath, high -fluid -loss slurries, which may affect the mechanical properties of the set cement, and rigid cement, which can get fracked as a result of casing expansions a nd contractions, are all examples of poor slurry design. Furthermore, failures might arise as a result of incorrect mud clearance. The mud on the formation s and casing s surface can hinder the cement from adhering with its surroundings, The application of Nano -silica gel in sealing well micro -annuli and cement channe ling Olatunji Olayiwola1, Vu Nguyen1, Randy Andres1, Ning Liu1. 1 University of Louisiana at Lafayette, USA 2 resulting in micro -annuli. These and other defects can occur, allowing formation fluids to pass through the cement barrier. Cement squeeze remedial operations are commonly used to fix cement leaks. However, due to low cement injectivity, pressure restriction, pin -hole leaka ge, micro -channels and fractures inside the leaked formation, and micro -cracks within primary cement, cement squeeze cannot be employed successfully to reduce and prevent leakage in some instances (Jones et al. 2014) . Although micro fine cement is designed to promote penetration, the underlying problem of cement and steel casing adhesion versus cohesive bond failure in the downhole environment is not addressed by most, if not all, current repair materials. Adhesion failure is characterized by brittleness an d unpredictability. A typical adhesion failure is cement -steel failure. However, delivering the gel fluid to the fracture zone before it gels is a major challenge in remedial operations. The rheology of the gel controls the occurrence. (Zareie, C., 2019). To address this problem, the gel mixture s composition is designed to have a long gelation time and low viscosity, allowing it to be pumped and crosslinked during oil well workovers (Zhang, X. et. al, 2015) . Because of their low thermal conductivity, low refractive index, high optical transparency, and large surface area, Nano -silica particles have gotten a lot of attention in well remedial operations. Cross -linking of polymers contributes to the formation of the silica network. The gel state, a colloidal intermediate phase between the solution and the solid state, has a three -dimensional structure and has promising applications in a variety of fields. State of the Art Cement squeeze operations are used to repair wells with poor primary cementing jobs or suspected leaks, in which additional cement is injected through perforations produced in the casing near the suspected source of leakage to ensure appropriate zonal isolation. Squeeze cementing is a corrective procedure that includes applying differential pressure across the cement slurry in order to dehydrate the cement (Goodwin, 1984). In theory, the slurry is supposed to reach and fill the
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	A Projection-Based Approach for Distributed Energy Resources Aggregation Yiran Wang, Haiwang Zhong Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University , Beijing, China Sichuan Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University zhonghw tsinghua.edu.cnGuangchun Ruan MIT, Boston, US Abstract Aggregating distributed energy resources (DERs) is of great significance to improve the overall operational efficiency of smart grid. The aggregation model needs to consider various factors such as network constraints, operational constraints, and economic characteristics of the DERs. This paper constructs a multi-slot DER aggregation model that considers the above factors using feasible region projection approach, which achieved the protection of DERs data information and the elimination of internal variables. A system economic dispatch (ED) model is established for the operators to make full use of the DER clusters. We calculate the feasible regions with temporal coupling by extending the Progressive Vertex Enumeration (PVE) algorithm to high dimension by the Quickhull algorithm. Finally, an IEEE 39-bus distribution network is simulated with DERs to verify the effectiveness of the proposed model. Results show that the two-step ED derives the same results as the centralized ED. Index Terms aggregation, renewable energy, battery, optimal dispatch, feasible region, projection I. I NTRODUCTION An increasing number of distributed energy resources (DERs) in the power system brings significant challenges to the modern smart grid. It is crucial to make full use of these DERs to realize the potential benefits of aggregated flexibility 1 . A DER aggregation model needs to reflect both the operational characteristics and cost characteristics of the DER clusters. Also, the aggregation model should consider the operational constraints of distribution networks in which the DERs locate at. For energy storage and other re- sources, temporal coupling constraints or binary states should be considered, even though this will largely increase the computational complexity. Up to now, it is often difficult to satisfy all of these conditions simultaneously. The existing literature on DER aggregation often tend to formulate the feasible regions 2 . Here the feasible region of each DER unit is constructed and then the Minkowski sum of all feasible regions is calculated in 3 , 4 , 5 . However, this approach does not consider the network operational constraints of distribution networks. As a result, the results of ED may lead to safety issues in the distribution network. A similar idea is applied in bidding decision where such regions could be derived by random sampling 6 . The work of Y . Wang and H. Zhong is supported by the National Key R D Program of China under Grant 2022YFB2403500.For system-level DER aggregation, network operational constraints must be considered. The existing literature often calculates the feasible region of DER clusters through pro- jection. This can be implemented using the Fourier-Motzkin Elimination (FME) algorithm 7 , which eliminates some variables in a set of linear inequalities by transforming some variables several times to project a set of constraints onto a specified variable. However, the computational complexity of the FME algorithm increases exponentially with the number of constraints and dimensionality, making it difficult to calculate high-dimensional feasible regions. In addition, there are also some sampling-based approximation methods, such as Monte Carlo method, Lagrangian relaxation method, which can be used to solve high-dimensional feasible region. These meth- ods usually have higher computational efficiency, but lower calculation accuracy compared to projection-based methods. While it is difficult to construct high-dimensional feasible regions, most research efforts are made in internal or ex- ternal approximation algorithms for convex hulls. Reference 8 formulates the feasible region characterization problem as a maximum-minimum programming problem, which is transformed into a mixed integer programming problem later, and proposes an external approximation method based on the feasible cut. In 9 , the PVE (Progressive Vertex Enumeration) algorithm is proposed for characterizing the P-Q output feasi- ble region of a VPP (Virtual Power Plant), which efficiently computes low-dimensional convex hulls. However, 9 only considers feasible region characterization for a single time slot and does not address the computational burden caused by temporal coupling. Reference 10 proposes a method for computing the feasible power region of multi-slot tie-lines based on time slots clustering using PVE, by clustering the slots, the high-dimensional feasible region is divided into multiple low-dimensional feasible regions for calculation and finally, the Minkowski sum is calculated to obtain the feasible power region for multiple slots. Reference 11 accurately calculates the aggregate feasible region (AFR) by analyzing all possible redundant constraints generated by FME and finding all non-redundant constraints as the feasible region of the model. Building upon 11 , the authors from 12 further formulate network constraints and temporal coupling in the mathematical expression for the entire flexibility of DERs. The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:arXiv:2308.04007v1 eess.SY 8 Aug 2023 A feasible region calculation method is proposed for DER-rich distribution networks with network constraints, temporal coupling constraints, and cost characterization. A two-step model is proposed to coordinate between DERs and distribution system operators, where the DER characteristics are captured by a set of dispatchable constraints for the smart grid operation. In the remainder of this paper, Section II establishes a model for distributed energy resources cluster systems, Section III describes the feasible region calculation method based on projection, and Sections IV and V respectively provide a case study and the conclusion. II. P ROBLEM STATEMENT AND MODEL A. Modeling of a Distributed Resource Cluster System The Distributed Energy Resources Cluster System (DCS) refers to a small-scale power system composed of DERs and the distribution network in which they are located. This system must satisfy the following network constraints of the distribution network: Pf ij,t gij(v2 i,t vi,tvj,tcosθij,t) bij,tvi,tvj,tsinθij,t (1) Qf ij,t bij(v2 i,t vi,tvj,tcosθij,t) gijvi,tvj,tsinθij,t,(2) (Pf ij,t)2 (Qf ij,t)2 ( Sij)2,(P0)2 (Q0)2 ( S0)2(3) PDG i,t PL i,t giiv2 i,t X j LiPf ij,t, i LN (4) QDG i,t QL i,t biiv2 i,t X j LiQf ij,t, i LN (5) vi,t vi,t vi,ti LN, j Li (6) where equations (1) and (2) are the active and reactive power flow equations of the distribution line ijbetween bus
__label__energy	arXiv:2111.12046v2 eess.SY 14 May 2022Distributedenergycontrolinelectricenergysystems RupamathiJaddivadaa,MarijaD.Ilicb, aResearch Laboratory of Electronics, 10-034, 222 Memorial D rive, Cambridge, MA-02139, USA bLaboratory for Information and Decision Systems, 32-D726, 32 Vassar Street, Cambridge, MA-02139, USA Abstract The power interactions of any component in electric energy s ystems with the rest of the system happen naturally, as gover ned by the energy conservation principles. There may, however, occur instances when the rate at which power gets generated b y one component through local energy conversion is not exactl y the same as that absorbed by rest of the system. This is when instabilities get induced. To model and control such instab ilities, this paper generalizes the notion of interaction variable used to characterize diverse system components in a uniﬁed manne r. The same variable captures aggregate system-wide eﬀects and sets reference points for multi-layered distributed outpu t feedback control. It has a physical interpretation of inst antaneous power and generalized reactive power. The higher layer desi gn utilizes the interactive energy state-space model to der ive intermediate reactive power control, which becomes a contr ol command to the lower layer physical model. This command is implemented using either Feedback Linearizing Control (FB LC) or Sliding Mode Control (SMC), for which suﬃcient stabil ity conditions are stated. This paper claims that the proposed d esign is fundamental to aligning dynamic interactions betw een components for stability and feasibility. Without loss of g enerality, we utilize a simple RLC circuit with a controllab le voltage source for illustrations, which is a simpliﬁed representat ion of any controllable component in microgrids. Key words: Energy dynamics, Generalized reactive power, Interaction variables, Distributed control, Feedback linearizing control, Sliding mode control 1 Introduction This paper considers the problem of distributed mod- eling and control design for the changing electric en- ergy systems. These are large-scale complex systems for which control is needed to manage solar power, wind powerandloaddisturbances.Topursuedistributedcon- trol, we characterize components by their internal dy- namics as well as by their interactions with the neigh- boringcomponents.Thisisdonebyestablishingphysics- based structured modeling to manage complexity. We formalize the inherent multi-layered structures mathe- matically and build on these structures for deriving the multi-layered control design. From the component s standpoint, the controlobjective istodelivertherequiredpower.However,assystemcon- ditions vary, this requiresadjusting voltagesin response to current deviations and vice-versa. Such adjustments This paper was not presented at any IFAC meeting. Cor- responding author Rupamathi Jaddivada. Tel. 1-412-378- 1479 Email addresses: rjaddiva mit.edu (Rupamathi Jaddivada), ilic mit.edu (Marija D. Ilic).lead to persistent time-varying disturbances, which ap- pearasanincrementalnegativeresistancecharacteristic undesirableforstableoperation.Suchdisturbanceshave been a cause of perpetual concern for system stability 1 3 . These problems are growing due to high penetra- tion of intermittent power plants with low inertia. One of the severalapproachesto controlenergy systems subject to time-varying disturbances is to design ro- bust centralized controllers immune to any disturbance in a pre-characterized set of disturbances. However, in this paper, we seek distributed controllers due to pri- vacy restrictions and their implementation without re- quiring fast communications. Most existing distributed controldesignmethodsrelyontime-scaleseparationbe- tween the models and control design objectives utilized at multiple control layers 4, 5 . When the assumptions on time-scale separation fail, each component gets af- fected by the net power disturbance resulting from in- teraction with the rest of the system. Such disturbances can not be treated as independent inputs since they are fast state-dependent variations. Weproposeinthispaperanovelmodelingapproachthat lends itself to distributed controldesign through the ex- Preprint submitted to Automatica 17 May 2022 Table 1 Commonly used notation Variables xState variable u Control rport input mExogenous disturbance y Output of interest xExtended state x,r,m T wDual variable associated with control( wu), disturbance ( wm) or port input ( wr) Superscripts rInteraction port u Control port mDisturbance port out Outgoing in Incoming ref Setpoint for tracking Subscripts iGeneral component index j Neighboring component index zVariables in energy space Energy space variables (Deﬁnitions available in Appendix A ) PInstantaneous power (Deﬁnition 3) Eg: Pu uwu QRate of change of reactive power (Deﬁnition 4) Eg: Qu u wu uwu EStored energy (Deﬁnition 5) pTime derivative of stored energy ( E) EtStored energy in tangent space (Deﬁnition 6) τ Time constant (Deﬁnition 7) xzState variable in energy space E,p TzInteraction variable P,Q T(Deﬁnition 1) ploitation of inherent structures resulting from energy conservation principles. The proposed method relies on informationexchangebetweenneighboringcomponents. This provides the information about the interactive dy- namics as power is exchanged back and forth between the components and its environment. Notably, this is a new area of research since the derived models are not in standard state-space form. We provide suﬃcient math- ematical conditions for feasibility and stability in terms of physically intuitive energy and power ﬂow variables. The typical design proposed in the literature is based on either hard-to-implement centralized controllers or onentirelylocaldisturbancerejection-basedcontrollers, leading to increased control eﬀort and lack of robust- ness 6, 7 . While facilitating coordinated control, the existing distributed controllers require restrictive con- ditions on internal stability, such as those of zero-state detectability 8, 9 . It is therefore, hard to obtain gen- eral feasibility, stability, and robustness conditions due to the non-linearity of the resulting interconnected sys- temsgovernedbygeneralenergyconservationprinciples. Asasolutiontothelimitationsmentionedabove, 10,11 proposedamodelingandcontrolthatexploitstheinher- entstructuralpropertiesofphysicalsystems.Inparticu- lar, this work showed that there exists a transformation of internal variables into an interaction variable , which can be leveraged for the local control design to have provable distributed stabilization of the interconnected system.Interactionvariableisdeﬁnedirrespectiveofthe complex internal energy conversion processes by utiliz- ing the inherent structure of interactions across compo- nents in the system, resulting from the ﬁrst energy con- servationlaw.Overthe lasttwodecades,the interactionvariable-based theory has been extended and utilized to design other types of nonlinear controllers, including control of power-electronics-based inverters, induction machines,generators,and residentialdemand-side tech- nologies 12 14 . In this paper, we extend the previously proposedinteractionvariable-basedapproachtoaccom- modate the interactive time-varying disturbances. Contributions and outline: In Section 2, we formally pose the distributed control problem as a tracking and output-disturbance decoupling problem from the component s perspective. We present a general multi- layered modeling framework that helps re-pose the distributed control problem drawing on the inherent in-
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SUSTAINABLE ENERGY (ACCEPTED VERSION) 1 Analysis of Avoided Transmission Through Decentralized Photovoltaic and Battery Storage Systems Shigeyoshi Sato Faculty of Environment and Natural Resources, University of Freiburg, Germany Anke Weidlich Department of Sustainable Systems Engineering, University of Freiburg, Germany Email: anke.weidlich inatech.uni-freiburg.de Abstract Decentralized renewable energy systems can be low- carbon power sources, and promoters of local economies. It is often argued that decentralized generation also helps reducing transmission costs, as generation is closer to the load, thus utilizing the transmission system less. The research presented here addresses the question whether or not, or under what circumstances this effect of avoided transmission can actually be seen for a community-operated cluster of photovoltaic (PV) power plants in two sample locations, one in Germany and one in Japan. For the analysis, the newly developed instrument of MPI-MPE diagrams is used, which plot the maximum power import (MPI) and maximum power export (MPE) in relation to the reference case of no local generation. Results reveal that for moderately sized PV systems without battery storage, avoided transmission can be seen in the Japanese model location, but not in Germany. It was also found that an additional battery storage can lead to avoided transmission in both locations, even for large sizes of installed PV capacity. Index Terms Renewable energy, PV integration, battery man- agement, multi-objective linear programming, grid usage. NOMENCLATURE 1; 2Objective weighting factor C Nominal storage capacity of the battery (MWh) Ch t Charging power at time t(MW) DG t Discharging power to the grid at time t(MW) DS t Discharging power for self-consumption (MW) t Time interval (h or 15 min) PmaxMaximum power of grid interaction (MW) RL t Residual load at time t(MW) SG t Surplus generation at time t(MW) St Storage charge level at time t(MWh) I. I NTRODUCTION Decentralized renewable power generation gains much at- tention as an environmentally friendly power source and a promoter of local economies. One additional advantage often c 2019 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works. DOI 10.1109 TSTE.2019.2946446, https: ieeexplore.ieee.org document 8863430advocated is that decentralized renewable electricity genera- tion helps avoiding infrastructure cost, because the transmis- sion system is used less, as generation is geographically close to the consumption 1 . However, in many cases, variable renewable energy hardly reduces the annual net peak load 2 . The authors of 3 quantitatively illustrate that grid interaction can decrease with the introduction of on-site photovoltaic (PV) systems in Australia, but show the effect only for one case with a ﬁxed PV size. With larger PV sizes, increased generation could cancel out the avoided transmission and even require an enhancement of grid infrastructure for exporting the surplus electricity. Therefore, it is interesting to study how avoided transmission depends on the PV size, and how it changes if battery storage is added to the local energy system. The potential of combinations of PV systems with battery storage has been widely studied. 4 6 , among others, show how cost savings can be achieved, and self-consumption rates are increased with larger battery systems operated along with PV plants. The beneﬁt of PV and battery systems for distribution system operators (DSOs) due to peak shaving has been demonstrated by 7 9 , among others. Several studies also analyzed the power ﬂow at the distribution transformer for evaluating the grid interaction induced by distributed PV system, e. g. 9 11 . The authors of 3 and 12 focused their studies on single households, 13 and 14 looked at res- idential areas, and 10 studied an entire village of prosumers with PV systems. 14 speciﬁcally address the relationship between maximum power and PV size, which is not reported in most other studies. They derive values of annual maximum residual load (MRL) and annual maximum surplus generation (MSG) from net load duration curves of three residential areas equipped with different sizes PV generators. Similar approaches had been previously followed by 2 and 15 , but for studying the effects of PV usage at a country-wide level. This work aims at comprehensively estimating the impact of decentralized PV systems on transmission grid usage. A PV plant was chosen as a representative system for renewable power generators, because PV has been intensively studied 16 , 17 , and is widely implemented world-wide. Two model communities have been analyzed which have very different load and solar irradiation patterns. Two cases were studied for comparison, i. e. PV-only systems and PV systems combinedarXiv:1908.10142v2 eess.SY 17 Oct 2019 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SUSTAINABLE ENERGY (ACCEPTED VERSION) 2 with a battery storage. The marginal change in transmission ﬂows related to the studied systems is not directly evaluated. Instead, the power exchange at the transformer connecting the model communities to the public grid is taken as a proxy for transmission requirements related to serving the community s electricity demand. The work builds on the concepts of MRL and MSG intro- duced by 14 , and uses them to form the newly proposed MPI-MPE diagrams, which plot the annual maximum power import (MPI, in MW) and annual maximum power export (MPE, in MW) that result from the introduction of a local PV system with or without an additional battery storage into the community s local grid. This new instrument is a very insightful and yet simple visualization of the effect that different PV sizes have on the exchange of power at the community s connection point to the public grid. Through this, transmission reductions from decentralized generation can be analyzed over a range of PV sizes in an intuitive manner. To the best knowledge of the authors, similar tools do not exist in the literature, so the proposed MPI-MPE curves extend the state-of-the-art of transmission reduction analysis
__label__energy	1 Identifying Operation Equilibrium in Integrated Electricity, Natural Gas, and Carbon-Emission Markets Yijie Yang, Jian Shi, Senior Member, IEEE, Dan Wangy,Senior Member, IEEE, Chenye Wu, Member, IEEE, and Zhu Han, Fellow, IEEE, Abstract The decarbonization of the power sector plays a pivotal role in economy-wide decarbonization to set the world on track to limit warming to 1.5 C by 2050. Carbon emission markets can play a signiﬁcant role in this transition by putting a price on carbon and giving electricity producers an incentive to reduce their emissions. In this paper, we study the operational equilibrium of an integrated regional jurisdictional energy system that comprises an electricity market, a natural gas market, and a carbon emission market. We ﬁrst propose the novel role of a regional carbon market operator (CMO). Different than the conventional cap-and- trade carbon trading mechanism, the proposed CMO manages carbon allowance trading in a centralized jurisdictional carbon emission market. We then develop the formulation to identify the operational equilibrium of the electricity, natural gas, and carbon emission markets based on their interactions. The proposed equilibrium can be obtained by solving the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions of all three operational models simultaneously. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed approach is more ﬂexible, consistent, and effective in mitigating carbon emissions compared with the cap-and-trade mechanism. Index Terms Decarbonization, Carbon emission market, Car- bon neutrality, Carbon pricing, Market equilibrium, MPEC NOMENCLATURE Indices and Sets E(i) set of buses connected directly to bus i G(m) set of nodes connected directly to node m G set of natural gas-ﬁred generating units R set of non-natural gas-ﬁred generating units NG i set of gas-ﬁred generating units connected to bus i OG i set of non-gas-ﬁred units connected to bus i WG i set of wind power generating units connected to busi S m set of natural gas suppliers connected to node m i;j indices of electric buses in set B m;n indices of natural gas nodes in set N o O index set of carbon allowance demands r R index set of carbon allowance suppliers t time index in set T tc time index in set Tc v V index set of generating units w W index set of natural gas suppliers Parameters v carbon emission rate of unit v ton p.u. ePG;v;t predicted output of wind generating unit vin timet p.u. v heat rate of natural gas-ﬁred unit v Mm3 p.u. bi;j susceptance of line connecting buses iandj p.u. CE;CG;CNvalue of lost electric load p.u. lost natural gas load M m3 unmet carbon demand ton CG;v variable production cost of non-natural gas-ﬁred generating unit v p.u. CK;r carbon allowance cost for carbon allowance sup- plierr Mm3 CM;v marginal cost of non-gas-ﬁred unit v p.u. CO;v non-fuel variable operation and maintenance cost of natural gas-ﬁred unit v p.u. CS;w variable production cost of natural gas supplier w Mm3 Fmax m;n capacity of the line connecting nodes mandn Mm3 FL;m;t non-generation-related natural gas demand at nodemin hourt Mm3 Fmax S;w;Fmin S;w maximum minimum natural gas supply from supplierw Mm3 Pmax i;j capacity of the line connecting buses iandj p.u. Pramp G;v ramping limit of generating unit v p.u. Pmax G;v;Pmin G;v maximum minimum power output of generating unitv p.u. PL;i;t electric demand at bus iin hourt p.u. Qmax C;r;t cmaximum carbon allowance supply from sup- plierr ton QL;o;t c carbon allowance demands in hour t ton Variables i;t phase angle of bus iin hourt rad FD L;m;t non-generation-related natural gas demand that is served in hour tat nodem Mm3 Fm;n;t natural gas ﬂow through the pipeline connecting nodesmandnin hourt Mm3 FS;w;t natural gas supplied in hour tby supplier w Mm3 pco2;t carbon price in hour t ton PG;v;t active power output from generating unit vin hourt p.u. PD L;i;t electric demand that is served at bus iin hourt p.u. QC;r;t c carbon allowance supplied in hour tby supplier r ton QD L;o;t ccarbon allowance demand othat is served in hour tc p.u. Abbreviations CEM Carbon emission market CMO Carbon market operator ETS Emission trading system I. I NTRODUCTION Power system is a major carbon emission producer: approxi- mately 60 of the United States electricity comes from fossil fuel combustion, making up 25 of the total U.S. greenhousearXiv:2210.09813v1 eess.SY 18 Oct 2022 2 gas (GHG) emissions 1 . In addition, with the rapid electriﬁ- cation of the building, industrial, and transportation sectors, the demand for power is projected to surge in the next decade . As an example, electriﬁcation is projected to increase annual electricity use in ISO New England by 14 over the next decade, according to 2 . Looking forward, deep and prompt decarbonization of the power sector is critical across many of the envisioned pathways to a decarbonized economy 3 . With rising generation from natural gas, wind, and solar, the U.S. power sector has been decarbonizing at an average rate of 3 per year since 2008 4 . From 2010 to 2019, coal- ﬁred generation declined by 48 , and natural gas generation increased by 58 5 due to the breakthrough in natural gas extraction techniques (e.g., hydraulic fracturing) and the superior characteristics of the natural-gas ﬁred generation. The total global renewable generation has also reached a record of 795 million MWh in 2021, accounting for about 20.1 of the electricity generation 6 . Despite the abovementioned progress, it is pointed out in 7 that the current emission trends are not on track to meet the urgent climate goal envisioned by the global leaders (e.g., a national 80 clean electricity share by 2030 for the U.S. 8 ). The electric power system needs to drastically accelerate its current trajectory toward carbon neutrality. Given the urgency of such a transition, it is evident that a multi-faceted approach is required, including technical measures such as the continued substitution of zero- low-emission power sources, improvements in end-use efﬁciency, large-scale deployment of storage as a grid ﬂexibility resource, and use of carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS). On the other hand, innovations in policy and regulations
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	1 The Impact of COVID -19 on Urban Energy Consumption of the Commercial Tourism City Dongdong Zhanga , Hongyi Lib , Hong yu Zhua , Hongcai Zhangb , Jonathan Goh a, Hui Liua, Man Chung Wongb a School of Electrical Engineering, Guangxi University, Nanning, China b State Key Laboratory of Internet of Things for Smart City, University of Macau, Macau, China Corresponding author: hczhang um.edu.mo Dongdong Zhang, Hongyi Li and Hong yu Zhu contributed equally to this paper. Highlights: Analysed the trend of energy production and consumption in a typical commercial tourist city represented by Macao during the COVID -19 pandemic . Completed energy consumption data in various fields in Macao during the COVID -19 pandemic. Compared the en ergy consumption features of different commercial tourist cities in the world during the COVID -19 pandemic. Abstract : In 2020, the COVID -19 pandemic spread s all over the world. In order to alleviate the spread of the epidemic, various blockade policies ha ve been implemented in many areas. This has led to sluggish demand in the world s major economies, a sharp drop in trad e index, and negative growth in energy consumption. Compa ring with l arge comprehensive cit ies or countr ies, the unique economy structure of Macao makes it a typical case of analysing the energy consumption of the commercial tourism cities during the epidemic period. In order to formulate a better epidemic prevention policy for urban energy consumption of th e commercial tourism cities, this paper first summarised the major statistics of energy supply and demands in Macao before and during the epidemic period based on actual data. Then, the characteristics of the energy consumption in different sectors of Macao , including hotel, transportation, tourism culture and public utilities , are analysed in detail . Finally, the energy consumption features of commercial tourism cit ies represented by Macao are compared with other typical countries regions (e.g. Italy, the United States, Japan and Brazil ). These analyses demonstrate the impact of the COVID -19 on energy consumption in commercial tourism cities , which provide insights for the government or energy providers to formulate their polic ies to adapt to this pandemic . Keywords: The COVID -19 pandemic; Energy management ; Energy structure characteristic; Urban Energy Consumption ; Macao 2 1. Introduction The outbreak of the COVID -19 pandemic in 2020 has widely affected more than 200 countries and regions. By the end of 2020, more than 1.8 million people died 1 . COVID -19 has strong infectivity and long incubation period, resulting in the exponential growt h and waveform expansion of the epidemic. To contain the spread of the virus, many countries and regions have adopted unprecedented quarantine measures , including closing cit ies, suspending work , forbidding gathering, working and studying from home etc., which changed the way of human life and production 2 . From the perspective of energy, transportation has a major impact on energy 3-4 . The strict border management and restrictions on going abroad implemented by countries all over the world have made air transportation suffer from significant economic depre ssion 5 . It is predicted that the passenger volume will reduce by 861 million to 1292 million person -times in 2020 6 , which will seriously affect the energy consumption characteristic s of cities . With the rapid emergence of virtual commerce, education and social networking platforms, the COVID -19 pandemic has also brought about significant digital transformation. Various uncertainties brought about by the epidemic situation have stimulated furthe r exploration of future technologies, and significantly increased the combination and innovation of various industries and AI technologies in the future 7 . Interestingly, d ue to the reduction of most energy demand and global economic activities, the global environment has been evidently improved in the short term 8 . The reduction of population mobility and industrial production has greatly reduced air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions 9 , resulting in the highest reduction of carbon emissions in t he past decade 10 . The COVID -19 pandemic has a tremendous impact on the short -term social economic development and people s life, further limiting the consumption demand and the export trade dominated by manufacturing industry 11-12 . Such impacts have resulted in the reduction of electricity demand and brought unp recedented challenges to the power industry that plays a supporting role in the development of human society. To retard the spread of the epidemic, city closure policy was implemented, which changed the structure of energy demand during the epidemic period. On the one hand, as most factories and enterprises are shut down, the decline of industrial and commercial demand have made the overall energy demand of all parts of the world present a signi ficant downward trend 13-14 . On the other hand, due to the implementation of policies such as restrictions of going out, many regions began to implement measures such as work -from -home and remote study , thereby the residential energy consump tion increase d significantly 15 . The change of energy consumption structure feature s reshape d the load curve s correspondingly. Affected by the epidemic and travelling restriction policy, people s lifestyle s and soc ial mode s have changed greatly. For example, the proportion s of remote 3 work ing and information sharing in human life are continuously increasing. The way of w orking from home makes people s time distribution of energy use more flexible, which cause s a time swift in the peak -valley curve 16 . As the peak period of energy consumption move s back as a whole, the load peak -valley difference between working days and rest days also decreases. With the change of energy demand structure , the energy structure in supply side also changed during the epidemic period . Affected by the COVID -19 pa ndemic , the overall demand for electricity has declined, resulting in the reduction of thermal power generation and the uptrend of multiple distributed
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	Are biofuel mandates cost-eﬀective? - an analysis of transport fuels and biomass usage to achieve emissions targets in the European energy system M. Millingera, , L. Reichenberga, F. Hedenusa, G. Berndesa, E. Zeyenb, T. Brownb aDepartment of Space Earth and Environment, Chalmers University of Technology, 412 96, Göteborg, Sweden bDepartment of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, Technische Universität Berlin, Einsteinufer 25 (TA 8), 10587 Berlin, Germany Abstract Abatement options for the hard-to-electrify parts of the transport sector are needed to achieve ambitious emissions targets. Biofuels based on biomass, electrofuels based on renewable hydrogen and a carbon source, as well as fossil fuels compensated by carbon dioxide removal (CDR) are the main options. Currently, biofuels are the only renewable fuels available at scale and are stimulated by blending mandates. Here, we estimate the system cost of enforcing such mandates in addition to an overall emissions cap for all energy sectors. We model overnight scenarios for 2040 and 2060 with the sector-coupled European energy system model PyPSA-Eur-Sec, with a high temporal resolution. The following cost drivers are identiﬁed: (i) high biomass costs due to scarcity, (ii) opportunity costs for competing usages of biomass for industry heat and combined heat and power (CHP) with carbon capture, and (iii) lower scalability and generally higher cost for biofuels compared to electrofuels and fossil fuels combined with CDR. With a -80 emissions reduction target in 2040, variable renewables, partial electriﬁcation of heat, industry and transport and biomass use for CHP and industrial heat are important for achieving the target at minimal cost, while an abatement of remaining liquid fossil fuel use increases system cost. In this case, a 50 biofuel mandate increases total energy system costs by 128-229 billion , corresponding to 39-82 of the liquid fuel cost without a mandate. With a negative -105 emissions target in 2060, fuel abatement options are necessary, and electrofuels or the use of CDR to oﬀset fossil fuel emissions are both more competitive than biofuels. In this case, a 50 biofuel mandate increases total costs by 16-31 billion , or 8-14 of the liquid fuel cost without a mandate. Biomass is preferred in CHP and industry heat, combined with carbon capture to serve negative emissions or electrofuel production, thereby utilising biogenic carbon several times. Sensitivity analyses reveal signiﬁcant uncertainties but consistently support that higher biofuel mandates lead to higher costs. Keywords: biofuels, electrofuels, negative emissions, renewable transport, biofuel mandates Highlights Biofuel mandates of 50 increase fuel cost by 39-82 in the medium term Electrofuels more cost-eﬀective at negative emissions targets Biomass use in industry heat and combined heat and power cost-eﬀective Biomass scarcity, opportunity costs and scalability of other options key factors 1. Introduction The transport sector accounted for 30 of total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the EU-27 in 2019, with an increasing trend 1 . Recent developments of electric vehicles and targets for phasing out internal Corresponding author Email address: markus.millinger chalmers.se (M. Millinger) Preprint submitted to Applied Energy July 8, 2022arXiv:2207.03000v1 physics.soc-ph 6 Jul 2022 combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs) 2, 3 indicate a considerable electriﬁcation of land-based transport within the next few decades. However, a phase-out of ICEVs takes time and thus a liquid hydrocarbon fuel demand persists for several decades even at high electriﬁcation rates 4, 5 . In maritime transport and aviation, a demand for liquid hydrocarbon fuels is likely to remain also in the long run 6 8 . Alternative fuel solutions are thus required to achieve ambitious emissions targets. Biofuels and electrofuels are the two available renewable liquid hydrocarbon fuel options 9 . Another option is the continued use of unabated fossil fuels combined with carbon dioxide removal (CDR) elsewhere in the system 10 12 . Currently, conventional biofuels produced from food crops are the dominating option 13 , but they are connected to land use change issues and other sustainability risks 14, 15 , and are being phased out in the EU 16 . Biomassresidueswhicharesuitableforexistingconventionalbiofuelprocesses(suchasusedcooking oil) are scarce 17 . Instead, advanced biofuels based on lignocellulosic biomass residues show a relatively large albeit uncertain potential 18 ; however, no commercially operational production exists today. Electrofuels are produced with hydrogen and carbon as feedstocks. Hydrogen can be sourced from electrolysers, which can use electricity when it is cheap in a system dominated by variable renewable energy (VRE). However, the potential depends on a substantial expansion of VRE (or other carbon emissions free) capacity, and thus can be seen as a large-scale option only in the longer term, especially as there is competition for hydrogen from other usages 19, 20 . An emissions cap-and-trade or tax is often seen as the ﬁrst-best policy option for achieving targets, since it in theory leads to the least-cost attainment of emissions targets 21 . However, fuel mandates may be important tools for a country or for the EU in a second-best setting if the ideal ﬁrst-best policy mix is hard to implement or if there are market barriers hindering abatement solutions 21 23 . Also, mandates may (i) support the development of promising technologies 21 , (ii) focus mitigation eﬀorts to the transport sector which is not pressured by international competition 24 , and (iii) count towards other goals, such as improved energy security 25 . IntheEU,transportfuelsaresubjecttofueltaxesandblendingmandatesforachievingemissionstargets, and there is a proposal to include the transport and additional industry sectors in the EU-ETS 26 . The proposal for the new Renewable Energy Directive (RED III) 27 includes renewable fuel mandates for the aviation (20 in 2035, with at least 5 electrofuels) 28 and road transport sectors (2.3 advanced biofuels for light transport in 2035), while the maritime sector is to reduce its energy intensity by 20 in 2035 compared to 2020 29 . However, several countries have set targets that signiﬁcantly surpass those of the EU as a whole. For instance, Sweden targets to decrease fuel emissions by 66 for diesel and 23 for gasoline by 2030, through blending in biofuels 30 , and Finland aims for 30 biofuels in the fuel mix by 2030 31
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 Transferable Energy Storage Bidder Yousuf Baker, Ningkun Zheng, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Bolun Xu, Member, IEEE Abstract Energy storage resources must consider both price uncertainties and their physical operating characteristics when participating in wholesale electricity markets. This is a challeng- ing problem as electricity prices are highly volatile, and energy storage has efficiency losses, power, and energy constraints. This paper presents a novel, versatile, and transferable approach combining model-based optimization with a convolutional long short-term memory network for energy storage to respond to or bid into wholesale electricity markets. We test our proposed approach using historical prices from New York State, showing it achieves state-of-the-art results, achieving between 70 to near 90 profit ratio compared to perfect foresight cases, in both price response and wholesale market bidding setting with various energy storage durations. We also test a transfer learning approach by pre-training the bidding model using New York data and applying it to arbitrage in Queensland, Australia. The result shows transfer learning achieves exceptional arbitrage profitability with as little as three days of local training data, demonstrating its significant advantage over training from scratch in scenarios with very limited data availability. Index Terms Energy storage; Deep learning; Transfer learn- ing; Power system economics. I. I NTRODUCTION Successful participation of energy storage resources in com- petitive electricity markets benefits storage investors and social welfare. Ancillary services such as frequency regulation have been the primary sources of revnue for energy storage owners, but these markets have quickly saturated due to surging storage deployments and small market size 1 . In the meantime, the share of storage arbitraging in wholesale markets has tripled from a little less than 20 in 2016 to almost 60 in 2021 1 . Thus price arbitrage in wholesale markets will be the main focus for future grid-scale energy storage projects. Energy storage arbitrages price differences and earns rev- enues in wholesale energy markets, i.e., charging during low- price periods and discharging during high-price periods. At the same time, arbitrage from energy storage helps reduce renewable curtailments, meet peak demands, mitigate extreme events, and reduce the cost of electricity 2 , 3 . As countries and regions ramp up decarbonization efforts, energy storage resources are taking on an increasingly important role in future electricity markets and are becoming a cornerstone for cost- effective decarbonization 4 , 5 . Thus, both energy storage owners and market organizers have significant economic and welfare drivers to evolve models and algorithms for energy storage to arbitrage robustly and profitably. However, energy storage arbitrage is non-trivial due to highly volatile electricity prices and limited storage capacity. Y . Baker, N. Zheng, and B. Xu are with Columbia University, NY , USA (e- mail: ykb2105, nz2343, bx2177 columbia.edu). Y . Baker was supported by the UAE Ministry of Education, N. Zheng and B. Xu were supported in part by National Science Foundation under grant ECCS-2239046.Various methods have been proposed in the literature to ad- dress energy storage participation in wholesale markets based on different theories. They require dedicated location-specific tuning and excessive computing power to achieve competitive arbitrage performance 6 . This paper proposes a novel end-to- end system for opportunity value calculation, prediction, and control, combining model-based dynamic programming with neural networks. Our approach innovates and provides several advantages as follows: Our approach innovatively predicts the derivative of value-to-go functions, which represent the opportunity value of the state of charge, and uses dynamic program- ming to generate the training dataset. Compared to real- time prices, opportunity value functions are more stable and structured, thereby enabling easier prediction and contributing to the reliable performance of our approach; Our approach is highly computationally efficient in data pre-processing, training, and control. The complete train- ing time, including generating training value functions, is less than six minutes over two years of price data, and operation bidding decisions are generated instantly; Our approach utilizes transfer learning to maintain com- petitive performance over different markets and partic- ipation scenarios, including price response and market economic bidding; Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance, achieving 70 to near 90 profit ratio compared to per- fect foresight with various storage durations when tested using price data from New York, US, and Queensland, Australia. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section II summarizes energy storage market participation and previous work using the learning method, Section III and IV elaborates on the arbitrage formulation and solution method, Section V presents the case study for price response and economic bid market rules in New York and the application of transfer learning for Queensland, and Section VII concludes the paper. II. L ITERATURE REVIEW A. Energy Storage Price Response and Self-Schedule Energy storage price response assumes the storage partici- pant can observe the real-time price realization first and then decide on the operation privately without informing the system operator. The price response participation option primarily applies to small-scale behind-the-meter (BTM) storage re- sources ( 1 MW) 7 . Plenty of prior works have investigated energy storage price response using a variety of methods, including model-predictive control (MPC) 8 , stochastic pro- gramming 9 , approximate dynamic programming 10 , and reinforcement learning 11 . Price response is comparably anarXiv:2301.01233v2 cs.LG 1 Jun 2023 2 easier problem than economic bids as the storage operator is not limited to market clearing models and can act after observ- ing new price signals. However, since price response mostly applies to small BTM storage projects, the revenue generated from arbitrage will unlikely justify any specialized computing hardware investments. Hence the arbitrage algorithm must be slim and efficient to minimize the computation cost. Alternatively, some markets allow energy storage operators to self-schedule and submit the operational schedule to the market operator. Still, this option is less frequently used in practice compared to participating by economic bids 12 . Self-scheduled storage cannot update the operation based on the system clearing price, a key difference compared to price- response or economic bids, which often causes the storage to miss price spike
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	Insights of using Control Theory for minimizing Induced Seismicity in Underground Reservoirs Diego Guti errez-Oribioa, Ioannis Stefanoua, aNantes Universite, Ecole Centrale Nantes, CNRS, GeM, UMR 6183, F-44000, Nantes, France Abstract Deep Geothermal Energy, Carbon Capture, and Storage and Hydrogen Storage have significant potential to meet the large-scale needs of the energy sector and reduce the CO 2emissions. However, the injection of fluids into the earth s crust, upon which these activities rely, can lead to the formation of new seismogenic faults or the reactivation of existing ones, thereby causing earthquakes. In this study, we propose a novel approach based on control theory to address this issue. First, we obtain a simplified model of induced seismicity due to fluid injections in an underground reservoir using a di ffusion equation in three dimensions. Then, we design a robust tracking control approach to force the seismicity rate to follow desired references. In this way, the induced seismicity is minimized while ensuring fluid circulation for the needs of renewable energy production and storage. The designed control guarantees the achievement of the control objectives even in the presence of system uncertainties and unknown dynamics. Finally, we present simulations of a simplified geothermal reservoir under di fferent scenarios of energy demand to show the reliability and performance of the control approach, opening new perspectives for field experiments based on real-time regulators. Keywords: Energy geotechnics, Geothermal energy, Energy and energy product storage, Earthquake prevention, Induced seismicity, Robust control 1. INTRODUCTION Deep Geothermal Energy, Carbon Capture and Stor- age, and Hydrogen Storage show promising potential in addressing the substantial energy sector demands while mitigating CO 2emissions. However, their e ffectiveness relies on injecting fluids into the Earth s crust, a pro- cess that may potentially induce earthquakes 1, 2, 3 . The occurrence of induced seismicity poses a signifi- cant threat to the feasibility of projects employing these techniques. This concern has led to the closure of sev- eral geothermal plants worldwide, such as those in Al- sace, France, in 2020 4, 5 , Pohang, South Korea, in 2019 6, 7 , and Basel, Switzerland, in 2009 8, 9 . Earthquakes initiate when there is a sudden release of significant elastic energy stored within the Earth s crust due to abrupt sliding along fault lines 10, 11 . Corresponding author. Email addresses: diego.gutierrez-oribio ec-nantes.fr (Diego Guti errez-Oribio), ioannis.stefanou ec-nantes.fr (Ioannis Stefanou)The injection of fluids can lead to the formation of new seismogenic faults or the reactivation of existing ones, which cause earthquakes 2, 3, 12 . More specifically, elevated fluid pressures at depth amplify the amount of elastic energy accumulated in the Earth s crust while re- ducing the friction along faults. As a result, the likeli- hood of earthquakes significantly increases, even in re- gions that are typically considered to have low seismic potential (see 2 , 7 , and 12 , among others). Therefore, earthquake prevention strategies are nec- essary to mitigate induced seismicity in the energy sec- tor 2, 7, 12 . Tra ffic light systems, cyclic stimulation and fracture caging are the most widely used approaches for earthquake prevention 13, 14, 15, 16 . Neverthe- less, to our knowledge, these methods rely on trial and error rather than a systematic control approach. They lack a mathematical foundation and cannot guarantee the avoidance of induced seismicity. Moreover, there is no proof that these methods cannot even trigger earth- quakes of greater magnitudes than the ones they are sup- posed to mitigate 17 . The fundamental assumptions of Preprint submitted to Journal May 15, 2024arXiv:2310.02700v3 eess.SY 13 May 2024 traffic light systems and its e ffectiveness were also ques- tioned in 18, 19, 20 . More recently, significant progress has been made in controlling the earthquake instability of specific, well- defined, mature seismic faults 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 . These studies have employed various control algorithms to stabilize the complex and uncertain nature of the un- derlying underactuated physical system. The designed controllers e ffectively stabilize the system and modify its natural response time. As a result, the energy dissi- pation within the system occurs at a significantly slower rate, orders of magnitude lower than that of the natural (uncontrolled) earthquake event. However, it is worth noting that these investigations did not consider factors such as the presence of multiple smaller faults, which are typically found in deep geothermal reservoirs, as well as fluid circulation constraints associated with en- ergy production. Regarding the controllability, observ- ability and parameter identification of geological reser- voirs, we refer to 27, 28, 29 . In 30 , the authors introduce a control strategy for a deep geothermal system. However, it is important to note that this study focused on a 1D di ffusion system, the control design was implemented based on a dis- cretized model (not accounting for possible spillover), and the output considered was the pressure over the reservoir, rather than the seismicity rate (SR). There- fore, this result presents many limitations to cope in- duced seismicity over real applications. This study accounts for water injections into an un- derground reservoir using a simplified model of a 3D diffusion equation. By utilizing this Partial Di fferen- tial Equation (PDE), a robust tracking control strategy is developed to regulate the SR, ensuring tracking to a desired reference. The primary control objective is to prevent induced seismicity while maintaining energy production. The designed control scheme demonstrates resilience against system uncertainties and unmodelled dynamics. Simulations of the process are conducted to validate the e ffectiveness of the control approach and show the potential for optimizing underground fluid cir- culation and thus energy production. Various simu- lation scenarios, considering di fferent energy demands and constraints, are presented to provide a comprehen- sive understanding of the system s behaviour and the re- liability of the control strategy. This research opens new perspectives for field applications at the kilometric scale based on real-time regulators and control theory. The structure of this paper can be outlined as follows. In Section 2, a motivating example
__label__energy	Methodologies for o ffshore wind power plants stability analysis Germano Rugendo Mugambia,b, , Nicolae Dariia,c, Hesam Khazrajb, Oscar Saborío-Romanoa, Alin George Raducub, Ranjan Sharmac, Nicolaos A. Cutululisa aDepartment of Wind and Energy Systems, Technical University of Denmark, Frederiksborgvej 399, Roskilde, 4000, Denmark bVattenfall Vindkraft A S, Denmark, Jupitervej 6, Kolding, 6000, Denmark cSiemens Gamesa A S, Denmark, Elektrovej, Kongens Lyngby, 2800, Denmark Abstract The development of larger O ffshore Wind Power Plants (OWPPs) is moving towards multi-vendor setups, ultimately aiming to establish Energy hubs. These structures are characterized by installations from di fferent vendors sharing the same connection or closely interconnected points. Control interactions among Wind Turbine (WT) converters and power systems have been detected, and this critical phenomenon can significantly impact the dynamic stability of the system. Various stability analysis methods have been proposed to analyze the interactions between OWPPs at the Point-of-Connection (PoC) and the power system. However, stability studies rarely consider the complex o ffshore transmission system behind the PoC. Generally, the overall OWPP is blamed for the instability. However, since it is a complex system, it is important to understand which part of the OWPP behind the PoC is causing the problem or is likely to become unstable under certain conditions. Therefore, this paper provides a detailed overview of the advantages and limitations of the current system screening indexes used to design the OWPP, and the stability analysis methods. Each method is discussed, and the appropriate methods, depending on OWPP structure, are evaluated and discussed. The analysis indicates that a combination of time domain and frequency domain methods is necessary for enhancing the definition of stability boundaries. Keywords: Control interactions, Multi-vendor, O ffshore wind power plant (OWPP), Stability analysis methods, System screening, Electromagnetic Transients (EMT) Nomenclature AC Alternating Current CSCR Composite Short Circuit Ratio DC Direct Current EMT Electromagnetic Transients ESCR Equivalent Circuit-based Short-circuit Ratio FFT Fast Fourier Transform GFL Grid-Following GFM Grid-Forming GSIM Grid Strength Impedance Metric HVAC High-V oltage Alternating Current HVDC High-V oltage Direct Current HIL Hardware-In-the-Loop IBR Inverter-Based Resource Corresponding author Email addresses: gemuga dtu.dk (Germano Rugendo Mugambi), nidar dtu.dk (Nicolae Darii )IF Interaction Factors IMR Impedance Margin Ratio IP Intellectual Property PED Power Electronic Devices LTI Linear Time Invariant MIIF Multi-Infeed Interaction Factors MIMO Multiple-Input and Multiple-Output MMC Modular Multi-Level Converter MVIF Multi-V oltage Interaction Factors ODE Ordinary Di fferential Equations PLL Phase-Locked Loop PoC Point-of-Connection PRBS Pseudo-Random Binary Sequence RMS Root Mean Square SCR Short-Circuit Ratio SCRIF Short Circuit Ratio with Interaction Factors Preprint submitted to XXX October 18, 2024arXiv:2410.13521v1 eess.SY 17 Oct 2024 SCL Short-Circuit Level SISO Single-Input and Single-Output STATCOM Static Synchronous Compensator TSO Transmission System Operator VSC V oltage Source Converter OWF Offshore Wind Farm OWPP Offshore Wind Power Plant WT Wind Turbine 1. Introduction The quest for a climate neutral by 2050 has seen tremendous yearly investments in o ffshore wind turbine installations world- wide. According to the Global O ffshore Wind Report 2024, o ff- shore wind installations have a 24 annual growth 1 . The In- ternational Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) predicts nearly 500 GW of global cumulative o ffshore wind installed capacity by 2030 from the current 75.2 GW 1, 2, 3 . Some countries in Asia-Pacific and Europe have set ambitious targets for achiev- ing their energy transition through o ffshore wind. For example, in the Esberg Declaration, Denmark, Germany, Netherlands, and Belgium have already agreed to develop a common o ff- shore wind system in the North Sea with a capacity of 300 GW by 2050 4, 5 . With the upcoming large-scale O ffshore Wind Power Plants OWPPs and energy hubs, more extensive High-V oltage Direct Current (HVDC) or High-V oltage Alternating Current (HV AC) transmission is envisaged to connect multiple OWPPs at the o ff- shore connection point. The interconnection of OWPP clusters from di fferent manufacturers will result in a multi-vendor o ff- shore system. Some future planned multi-vendor o ffshore wind projects that will share a connection point include SOFIA and DOGGER BANK C with 100 Siemens Gamesa GE Haliade 14 MW wind turbines, respectively 6 . Typically, an Alternating Current (AC) o ffshore system is characterized by low inertia, low damping, and possible interac- tion between an HVDC converter and wind turbine converters for an HVDC-connected OWPP 7 . These challenges are exac- erbated if the control systems of the multiple converters are not identical 8 . The interactions could be in the form of harmon- ics, oscillation due to voltage instability, or system trip due to overcurrents. The nature of harmonics depends on the amount of power generated by wind turbines and the topology of the offshore AC network 7 . Hence, for the envisaged interconnec- tions where large OWPPs from di fferent manufacturers share connection points o ffshore, it is important to investigate possi- ble adverse control interactions among hundreds of wind tur- bine converters whose control characteristics are di fferent and their impact on the o ffshore AC grid. Another recent development that may introduce stability challenges is the collector system voltage, which is planned to increase from 66 kV to 132 kV . The voltage increase may makethe use of an o ffshore transformer redundant in some cases. In such scenarios, several very large o ffshore wind power plants from di fferent manufacturers will be connected to the same hub without a dedicated o ffshore plant transformer, raising concerns about the dynamic stability of the o ffshore grid due to possi- ble interactions between hundreds of converter-interfaced wind turbines. TenneT is already leading on this front, as the upcom- ing Ijmuiden Ver wind farm and DolWin5 grid connection will have no wind farm transformer. The wind power plants will be connected directly to the 66-kilovolt switchyard at the o ffshore converter station 9 . Recent real events, such as the increase of potential OWPPs disconnections and consequent blackouts in UK 10 or low- frequency oscillatory e ffects induced by Inverter-Based Re- source (IBR) interactions 11 have raised the interest of in- dustry
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	XXX Journal Title Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX https: doi.org XXXX XXXX xxxx-xxxx xx xxxxxx 1 Enhancing Bistable Vibration Energy Harvesters with Tunable Circuits: A Comparative Analysis Adrien Morel1, Quentin Demouron1, Adrien Badel1 1 SYMME, Université Savoie Mont-Blanc, France E-mail: adrien.morel univ-smb.fr Received xxxxxx Accepted for publication xxxxxx Published xxxxxx Abstract In this article, we present an analysis of the effects of nonlinear circuits on bistable vibration energy harvesters. We begin by introducing an analytical model for bistable vibration energy harvesters and demonstrate that the impact of nonlinear circuits can be characterized by two factors: electrically-induced damping and electrically-induced stiffness. Subsequently, we investigate how these factors influence the power-frequency response of the harvester. Our findings reveal that electrically-induced damping significantly affects the bistable vibration energy harvester dynamics, whereas electrically-induced stiffness has minimal impact, which is a notable difference from the behavior of linear harvesters connected to nonlinear circuits. Thereafter, we conduct a comparative study of bistable energy harvesters connected to different nonlinear circuits already well documented in the literature. Our analysis demonstrates that, in most cases, the parallel synchronized switch harvesting on inductor circuit yields superior performance due to its ability to maximize electrically-induced damping. These comparative assessments and conclusions are evaluated within the framework of our proposed models and are contrasted with results obtained from linear vibration energy harvesters. The derived comparison maps presented at the end of this paper offer quantitative justification for selecting the optimal circuit for bistable energy harvesters, while deepening our comprehension of the intricate dynamics associated with nonlinear harvesters coupled with nonlinear circuits. Keywords: Vibration energy harvester, Nonlinear dynamics, Harmonic balance, Nonlinear circuits, Bi-stability, SECE, SSHI.1. Introduction In recent years, vibration energy scavenging has emerged as a promising alternative to batteries for powering sensor nodes, especially in closed confined environments where traditional energy sources like solar and thermal gradients are limited 1 . Among various electromechanical transduction mechanisms, the utilization of piezoelectric energy harvesters at the centimeter scale has gained significant attention due to their ability to convert mechanical strain into storable electrical energy with high power densities 2 . Piezoelectricity-based vibration energy harvesters (VEH) consist of two main components: i) The electromechanical resonator, which converts ambient vibration energy into strain applied to the piezoelectric material. This strain generates electrical charges due to direct piezoelectric effect. ii) The electrical circuit, responsible for extracting energy from the piezoelectric material and converting the AC voltage across its electrodes into a DC voltage suitable for charging a battery or capacitor. Both these two aspects of VEH have been thoroughly investigated and optimized during the last decades. In order to enhance the power and harvesting bandwidth of electromechanical resonators, nonlinearities have been progressively incorporated and engineered 3 . Indeed, as proven in the seminal paper of Cottone et al. 4 , nonlinear electromechanical resonators exhibit wider bandwidths of their linear counterparts, tackling one of their main drawbacks: their sensitivity to vibration frequency shifts 5 . Various types of nonlinear VEH have been studied by the community, in order to enhance the harvesting power and bandwidth, such as monostable resonators 6,7 , bistable Duffing-type resonators 8,9 , and more recently, tri-stable 10 and multi-stable 11 resonators. Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Morel et al 2 On the other hand, significant efforts have been made to optimize the electrical circuits for VEHs with the goal of maximizing harvested power and bandwidth 12 . Initially, the standard energy harvesting (SEH) circuit, comprising a full-diode bridge followed by a DC-DC converter, was studied and optimized as a straightforward approach to adapt conventional power electronics systems for vibration energy harvesting 13, 14 . To further increase the extracted power, researchers have proposed a range of nonlinear circuits that outperform SEH. Notable examples include the synchronous electrical charge extraction (SECE) circuit 15 and the synchronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI) circuit 16 . These circuits have demonstrated the capability to multiply harvested power by factors ranging from 2 to 10 compared to SEH 17 . Over the years, several improved variants, such as the double synchronized switch harvesting (DSSH) 18 , enhanced synchronized switch harvesting (ESSH) 19 , synchronized switch harvesting on capacitors (SSHC), and synchronized multiple bias-flip (SMBF) 20 circuits, have been developed and implemented. More recently, researchers have explored the potential of tunable circuits to enhance the bandwidth of linear VEHs by electrically adjusting the harvester dynamics 21, 22 . For instance, the frequency tuning SECE (FT-SECE) 23 , short-circuit SECE (SC-SECE) 24 , and phase-shifted SSHI (PS-SSHI) 25 are notable improvements of SECE and SSHI circuits that enable bandwidth enhancement of linear VEHs by a factor ranging from 2 to 6 26 . Collectively, these advancements in electrical circuits for VEHs have played a vital role in maximizing harvested power and expanding the bandwidth of linear VEHs. However, despite tremendous efforts in independently optimizing the electromechanical resonator and the electrical circuits, the majority of studies have focused on either analyzing a nonlinear electromechanical resonator connected to a simple resistance, which serves as an emulation of the electrical circuit, or investigating complex nonlinear circuits connected to a linear or standardized VEH. Only a few research works have delved into the interactions between nonlinear electromechanical resonators and nonlinear circuits. For example, Singh et al. 27 proposed a joint study and modeling of a bistable piezoelectric energy harvester (PEH) coupled with a synchronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI) circuit in 2015. Their numerical and experimental investigation demonstrated the benefits of such a combination in enhancing harvested power under broadband excitations. In 2019, Huguet et al. 28 presented an analytical and experimental study of a synchronous electrical charge extraction (SECE) circuit and a tunable SECE circuit coupled with a bistable PEH. Their work showcased improved performance compared to using a resistive load. Additionally, Wang et al. 29 proposed an analytical modeling approach in 2020 for a nonlinear monostable VEH combined with various nonlinear circuits, based on the impedance model. Although their study focused on a monostable VEH and is not directly applicable to bistable VEH, it provided
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	Optimal heterogeneity in a simpli ed highly renewable European electricity system Emil H. Eriksena, Leon J. Schwenk-Nebbea, Bo Tranbergb,c, Tom Brownd, Martin Greinerb aDepartment of Physics and Astronomy, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 120, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark bDepartment of Engineering, Aarhus University, Inge Lehmanns Gade 10, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark cDanske Commodities A S, Vaerkmestergade 3, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark dFrankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies (FIAS), Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universit at, Ruth-Moufang-Stra e 1, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Abstract The resource quality and the temporal generation pattern of variable renewable energy sources vary signi cantly across Europe. In this paper spatial distributions of renewable assets are explored which exploit this heterogeneity to lower the total system costs for a high level of renewable electricity in Europe. Several intuitive heuristic algorithms, optimal portfolio theory and a local search algorithm are used to nd optimal distributions of renewable generation capacities that minimise the total costs of backup, transmission and renewable capacity simultaneously. Using current cost projections, an optimal heterogeneous distribution favours onshore wind, particularly in countries bordering the North Sea, which results in average electricity costs that are up to 11 lower than for a homogeneous reference distribution of renewables proportional to each country s mean load. The reduction becomes even larger, namely 18 , once the transmission capacities are put to zero in the homogeneous reference distribution. Heuristic algorithms to distribute renewable capacity based on each country s wind and solar capacity factors are shown to provide a satisfactory approximation to fully optimised renewable distributions, while maintaining the bene ts of transparency and comprehensibility. The sensitivities of the results to changing costs of solar generation and gas supply as well as to the possible cross-sectoral usage of unavoidable curtailment energy are also examined. Keywords: large-scale integration of renewables, system design, renewable energy networks, wind power generation, solar power generation, levelised system cost of electricity, Europe 1. Introduction The ambitious renewable energy targets set by European governments 1 imply that the share of renewables in elec- tricity generation will increase signi cantly in the years to come. At present, the leading renewable technologies are wind, solar photovoltaics (PV) and hydroelectricity, of which only wind and solar PV have the potential for large scale expansion. The uneven distribution of wind and solar resources across the continent raises the question of how best to exploit these heterogeneous resources. If wind and solar generation capacities are concentrated in those coun- tries with the best resources, this may increase demand for transmission and increase energy imbalances between countries; if wind and solar generation are distributed ho- mogeneously, then the best renewable resources will not be fully used and total system costs may be higher than the heterogeneous optimum. In this paper, the consequences of heterogeneity for the whole electricity system, including backup generation and transmission, will be quanti ed. Email addresses: emher au.dk (Emil H. Eriksen), leon schwenk-nebbe.com (Leon J. Schwenk-Nebbe), bo eng.au.dk (Bo Tranberg), brown fias.uni-frankfurt.de (Tom Brown), greiner eng.au.dk (Martin Greiner)Since wind and solar PV are both Variable Renewable En- ergy Sources (VRES), backup generation is needed if the electrical demand is to be met at all times. Backup gener- ation introduces additional system costs, which depend on the mismatch between VRES generation and load. Using the degrees of freedom associated with the choice of the ca- pacity distributions of VRES for each country, it is possible to smooth out the aggregated temporal generation pattern or even shape it towards the load pattern. As a result, the mismatch and thus the backup requirements is lowered. To decrease the dimensionality of the problem, renewable assets can be assigned homogeneously, proportional to the mean load of each country, with a uniform wind-to-solar mixing factor. This approach is demonstrated in 2, 3 , where optimal wind-to-solar mixes for Europe are found that minimise balancing and storage costs. Further re- ductions in backup requirements are possible by extend- ing the transmission network to enable more energy ex- change between the countries 4, 5 . The implications for total system costs of di erent homogeneous renewable pe- nentrations, wind-solar mixes and transmission levels were considered in 6 , where the cost-optimal design was found to consist of a renewable energy penetration of 50 and a wind fraction of 94 . Other relevant research on the advantages of grid extensions for the integration of renew- Preprint submitted to Elsevier September 6, 2018arXiv:1706.00463v1 physics.soc-ph 1 Jun 2017 ables, including reduced variability and smaller forecast errors, can be found in 7 13 . In this paper the consequences of moving from a homoge- neous spatial distribution of VRES and a uniform wind-to- solar mixing factor to a cost-optimal placement of VRES capacities around Europe are explored. The distribution of VRES plants is determined by at least two considera- tions. The rst consideration is the geographical variation of the VRES quality. The resource quality is quanti ed through the capacity factor (CF) de ned as CF average generation rated capacity: (1) The capacity factor is a number between 0 and 1, where 0 means no generation and 1 means maximum generation at all times. Capacity factors for the European countries for onshore wind and solar PV are calculated using (1) and listed in Table 2. The second consideration is the geo- graphical variation of the temporal generation pattern for a given VRES type. This e ect is particularly important for wind since Europe is large compared to the correlation length of wind of 600 km 14 16 , and wind therefore bene ts from smoothing e ects across the continent. With these points in mind, the optimal heterogeneous spa- tial layouts of wind and solar PV across Europe is inves- tigated and compared to the homogeneous layouts. The main point of comparison is the average cost of electricity, which is composed of the VRES, backup and transmis- sion costs. Di erent approaches to cope with the resulting large number of degrees of freedom are considered. In the literature a common approach for
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRESS IN APPLIED SCIENCE ENGINEERING (CRPASE) CRPASE: T RANSACTIONS OF ELECTRICAL , ELECTRONIC AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING Journal homepage: http: www.crpase.com CRPASE: Transactions of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering 9 (3) Article ID: 2860 , 1 8, September 2023 ISSN 2423 -4591 Research Article Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Power Electronics Control and Optimization Maryam Bahrami1, Zeyad Khashroum2 1 Department of Industrial Engineering, Lamar University, Beaumont, TX 77710, USA 2 Department of Electrical Engineering, Lamar University, Beaumont, TX 77710, USA Keywords Abstract Power electronics, Machine learning, Control, Optimization, Efficacy, Precision . In the rapidly advancing landscape of contemporary technology, power electronics assume a pivotal role across diverse applications, ranging from renewable energy systems to electric vehicles and consumer electronics. The efficacy and precision of these pow er electronics systems stand as cornerstones of their functionality. Within this context, the integration of machine learning techniques assumes paramount significance. This article endeavors to present an extensive and comprehensive review of the machine learning techniques that find application in power electronics control and optimization. Through meticulous exploration, we aim to elucidate the profound potential of these methods in shaping the future of power electronics control and optimization. 1. Introduction Power electronics refers to the application of solid -state electronics to control and convert electrical power. These systems are found in various domains, including industrial automation, renewable energy, transportation, and more. The effici ency and reliability of power electronic systems are vital for their successful operation 1 8 . Machine learning techniques have been applied to power electronics control and optimization to improve the performance of power electronics systems 9 11 . These techniques can be used to reduce the computational expense associated with characterizing DC -DC converters, which is necessary for designing and optimizing power electronics systems. Machine learning techniques such as support vector regression and artificial neural networks have been utilized to accurately predict DC -DC converters performance 12 17 . Corresponding Author: Zeyad Khashroum E-mail address: zeiad89 gmail.com , ORCID: https: orcid.org 0009 -0003 -7091 -3112 Received: 12 July 2023; Revised: 21 August 2023; Accepted: 8 September 2023 https: doi.org 10.61186 crpase.9.3.2860 Academic Editor: Abdoljalil Addeh Please cite this a rticle as: M. Bahrami , Z. Khashroum, Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Power Electronics Control and Optimization , Computational Research Progress in Applied Science Engineering , CRPASE: Transactions of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering 9 (2023) 1 8, Article ID : 2860 . In addition, several publications have reviewed artificial intelligence (AI) applications for power electronic system s 7,18 20 . These applications include optimization, classification, regression, and data structure exploration and can be applied to the design, control, and maintenance phases of the power electronics system lifecycle 10 . AI techniques such as expert systems, fuzzy logic, metaheuristic methods, and machine learning have been discussed in the literature 10,21 . The existing application of machine learning methods for enhancing power system resilience has been reviewed in 20 , which is the ability to withstand and recover from extreme events or attacks. The paper discusses the challenges and opp ortunities of applying machine learning for various aspects of power system resilience, such as situational awareness, contingency analysis, restoration planning, and adaptive protection. The paper also describes machine learning techniques and their appli cations in power system resilience. Bahrami and Khashroum - CRPASE: Transactions of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering 9 (3) Article ID : 2860 , 1 8, September 2023 2 Modeling Energy Consumption Using Machine Learning has been introduced in 22 . This paper develops predictive models for energy consumption using machine learning techniques. The paper compares the performance o f different machine learning techniques, such as Multiple Linear Regression, Random Forest Regressor, Decision Tree Regressor, Extreme Gradient Boost Regressor, Support Vector Machines, K -Nearest Neighbor, and deep learning. It has been shown that Random F orest Regressor and deep learning have the best accuracy among the tested techniques. In 23 , a systematic review of the fault detection and diagnosis techniques for complex systems and technologies has been presented. Fault detection and diagnosis are processes that monitor the system health and identify the causes and locations of malfunctions. The paper categorizes the techniques into model -based and data -driven approaches, focusing on artificial intelligence -based methods. The article also describes the typical steps involved in designing and developing automatic fault detection and diagnosis systems. In another study 24 , analysis of power flows, power quality, photovoltaic systems, intelligent transportation, and load forecasting have been discussed in detail. The survey investigates the most recent and promising ML techniques proposed by the literature, highlighting their main characteristics and relevant results. The review revealed that ML algorithms can handle ma ssive quantities of data with high dimensionality, allowing the identification of hidden characteristics of complex systems. Hybrid models generally show better performances when compared to single ML - based models. Solar power generation can be unpredictab le due to cloud cover and weather conditions 25 . This study uses meteorological data to predict solar power output, with Support Vector Regression proving to be a more effective method than other machine learning algorithms 25 . Various parameter tuning techniques, including Random search, Grid search, and Tree -based optimization, are employed to create a robust model for accurate solar power prediction. Traditio nal power electronics systems for fuel cell - powered electric vehicles often involve two separate boost converters, which can be challenging for high -density vehicle applications. In 26 , the authors discussed methods for designing an optimal system that integrates fuel cells and batteries in electric vehicles. It proposes a solution using reinforcement learning to adapt to changing conditions, resulting in higher efficiency and reduced carbon emissions, which is especially beneficial for heavy -duty commercial vehicles. The field of power electronics, machine drives, and electric vehicles i ncreasingly focuses on data -driven fault classification for power converter systems. A data -driven, supervised machine learning approach that combines Expectation Maximization Principal Component Analysis (EMPCA) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) to
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	Double Input Boost Y-Source DC-DC Converter for Renewable Energy Sources Niteesh S Shanbog Dept. of Electrical and Electronics PES University Bengaluru, India nit1995 yahoo.co.inK R Pushpa Dept. of Electrical and Electronics PES University Bengaluru, India pushpakr pes.edu Abstract With the increasing adoption of renewable energy sources by domestic users, decentralisation of the grid is fast becoming a reality. Distributed generation is an important part of a decentralised grid. This approach employs several small-scale technologies to produce electrical energy close to the end users or consumers. The higher reliability of these systems proves to be of advantage when compared to traditional generation systems. Multi-Input Converters (MICs) perform a decisive function in Distributed Energy Resources (DERs). Making use of such MICs prove to be beneﬁcial in terms of size, cost, number of components used, efﬁciency and reliability as compared to using several independent converters. This thesis proposes a double input DC- DC converter which makes use of a quasi Y-source converter in tandem with a boost converter. The quasi Y-source converter has the advantage of having a very high gain for low duty cycles. The associated operating modes are analysed and the operation of the MIC is veriﬁed using simulation result. A hardware prototype is built for large signal analysis in open loop. Different loads are applied and the efﬁciency of the MIC as a whole as well as the load sharing between the different sources is investigated. Index Terms y-source, dc-dc converter, boost converter, Multi-input converters I. I NTRODUCTION Multi Input Converters (MICs) are growing in popularity because of their new found applications in the modern energy system which includes signiﬁcant amounts of renewable en- ergy sources and distributed generation 1 . In most modern day setups, the input power source, output load demand or sometimes even both change instantaneously and are not exactly the same at any given instant 2 as they should ideally be. Providing a good match between the input source and the output sink is thus, a complicated task. Additional sources thus become necessary to aid the main source in load demand fulﬁllment. It is such situations that MICs have started to play a pivotal role. One single MIC can thus be able to replace numerous converters leading to signiﬁcant savings. These converters interface different input voltage levels and combines their advantages to feed the load. MICs have a lower number ofcomponents while also simultaneously increasing the reliabil- ity and the efﬁciency. The Y-source impedance network is introduced in converters in order to achieve a high voltage gain even with small duty cycles. A DC-DC boost converter has been implemented in 3 using the Y-Source impedance network. This network makes use of a tightly coupled transformer to achieve the high gain. The quasi Y-Source DC- DC converter proposed in 4 is a modiﬁcation to the Y-source converter. This modiﬁcation over the Y-source converter enjoys continuous input current characteristics thus enabling it to be used in fuel cells and photo-voltaic systems. An entire family of Y-source based DC- DC converters have been deﬁned in 5 to make use of it s high gain applications in sources like photo-voltaic cells and fuel cells. Coupled inductors have been used in literature 6 to create magnetically coupled impedance sources in converters to create high gain at small duty cycles. The Quasi Y-source converter belongs to this class of converters. The DC-DC Boost Converter 7 is one of the most basic power electronics converters which is used to boost the DC voltage. Liu and Chen have given the general systematic approach to synthesize Multi Input Converters in 8 . The Quasi Y-source converter and the boost converter act like a Pulsating Current Source Cell according to 8 and hence they must be added together in parallel before being supplied to the load. Various types of double input converters which draw from two sources either simultaneously or individually have been implemented in 9 , 10 and 11 .The general structure of an MIC is given in Fig 1. This paper is organized into 7 sections. The next section contains the converter topology and the operating modes. Section III and IV discusses the simulation results and the observations from the hardware implementation respectively. Section V discusses about the results obtained and the pattern of load sharing between the two sources. Section VI discusses about the conclusions that can be drawn from this paper while Section VII talks about the future course of work that can be done with this converter topology.arXiv:1907.02789v1 eess.SY 5 Jul 2019 Fig. 1. General structure of a Multi Input Converter. II. C ONVERTER TOPOLOGY The double input boost Y-source DC-DC converter is using the guidelines given in 8 . Both the quasi Y-source converter and the boost converter act like a Pulsating Source Current (PCSC) cell when the load is removed. Hence they are parallely connected to the voltage sink in order to synthesize the Multi-Input Converter as shown in Fig 2. Vin1,Vin2and Voare the input voltage of the quasi Y-source converter, the input voltage of the boost converter and output voltage at the load respectively. The source which is fed to the quasi Y- source converter has a smaller voltage than the second source because the quasi Y-source converter has a higher gain. Fig. 2. General structure of a Multi Input Converter. C1andC2are the capacitors added to the quasi Y-source converter in order to draw continuous input current. An additional input inductor, L1is added to stop the large inrush of input current at start-up and also to avoid input oscillations due to the input parasitic capacitances of C1andC2. The converter drains power from both the input sources either simultaneously or individually. Since there are two switches, we have four modes of operation: Mode 1 : When SW1 is ON and SW2 is OFF. The load draws power only from Source 1. The input inductor of the second source is being charged. Mode 2 : When both SW1 and SW2 is ON. The load is being supplied by both the
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Quantum materials for energy-eﬃcient neuromorphic computing: Opportunities and challenges Axel Hoﬀmann,1Shriram Ramanathan,2Julie Grollier,3Andrew D. Kent,4Marcelo Rozenberg,5 Ivan K. Schuller,6, 7Oleg Shpyrko,6Robert Dynes,6Yeshaiahu Fainman,8Alex Frano,6Eric E. Fullerton,9, 8 Giulia Galli,10, 11Vitaliy Lomakin,9, 8Shyue Ping Ong,12Amanda K. Petford-Long,11, 13Jonathan A. Schuller,14 Mark D. Stiles,15Yayoi Takamura,16and Yimei Zhu17 1)Materials Research Laboratory and Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA 2)School of Materials Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA 3)Unité Mixte de Physique CNRS Thales, Université Paris-Saclay, 91767 Palaiseau, France 4)Center for Quantum Phenomena, Department of Physics, New York University, New York 10003, USA 5)Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS Laboratoire de Physique des Solides, Orsay 91405, France 6)Department of Physics, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 7)Center for Advanced Nanoscience, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 8)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 9)Center for Memory and Recording Research, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 10)Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering and Department of Chemistry, The University of Chicago, Chicago Illinois 60637, USA 11)Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, Illinois 60439, USA 12)Department of NanoEngineering, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 13)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA 14)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA 15)Physical Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899-6202, USA 16)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California, Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA 17)Department of Consdensed Matter Physics and Materials Science, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA (Dated: 6 April 2022) Neuromorphic computing approaches become increasingly important as we address future needs for efﬁciently pro- cessing massive amounts of data. The unique attributes of quantum materials can help address these needs by enabling new energy-efﬁcient device concepts that implement neuromorphic ideas at the hardware level. In particular, strong correlations give rise to highly non-linear responses, such as conductive phase transitions that can be harnessed for short and long-term plasticity. Similarly, magnetization dynamics are strongly non-linear and can be utilized for data classiﬁcation. This paper discusses select examples of these approaches, and provides a perspective for the current op- portunities and challenges for assembling quantum-material-based devices for neuromorphic functionalities into larger emergent complex network systems. I. INTRODUCTION Brain-inspired computing is promising for the development of highly efﬁcient complex computation with minimal energy consumption. Today, software implementations of neural net- works have become ubiquitous, including facial recognition software, language translation, and search engines. Unfortu- nately the energy being used on these tasks is growing unsus- tainably. Fortunately, the brain also provides inspiration for approaches to minimize this energy. Brain-inspired comput- ing can not only address the efﬁciency of computing in datacenters, it can also address the need to provide efﬁcient com- putation solutions locally at potential sensors and close to the end-user in order to avoid the inefﬁciencies of communicating data over long-distances. Most research on neural networks and on neuromorphic computing uses CMOS technology.1However, as an increas- ing number of applications emerge, more complicated net- works require more resources. One approach to limit the en- ergy used is to use specialized hardware like graphical pro- cessing units (GPUs) or tensor processing units (TPUs) that are optimized for carrying out the many vector-matrix multi-arXiv:2204.01832v1 cs.ET 4 Apr 2022 2 plications that are used in neural networks. So far, this is the most commercially viable approach. In a more forward-looking approach to capturing some of the brain s efﬁciency for cognitive computing, many re- searchers are trying to more closely mimic the brain by build- ing spiking networks. Large corporations2 4have developed specialized chips that are in some sense, still conventional digital computers, since they are implemented with standard CMOS technology but they are optimized for running arti- ﬁcial neural networks algorithms. These chips are designed around digital CMOS implementations of synapses and neu- rons, where a large number of relatively small computing units are in close physical proximity to the working memory that is distributed throughout the system. These remarkable chips implement millions of neurons and hundreds of millions of synapses. Other approaches5are hybrid in the sense that the neurons are physically implemented by analog electronics.6For in- stance, the membrane potential of each neuron is implemented by the charge stored in a capacitor. The neurons emit a spike when the voltage of the capacitor reaches a preset threshold potential. However, the system is hybrid because the spike is not represented by the emission of an analog action poten- tial, but by a spike event, which is communicated to a down- stream neurons through a network that digitally implements the synaptic connections. The power consumption of spiking systems might be further optimized by using transistors work- ing in the subthreshold regime.7However, operating in this regime leads to more variability in the electronic response. Miniaturization of CMOS electronics is feasible down to the nanometer scale. However, all neuromorphic computing systems that represent a neuron in a compact manner, require a capacitor, whose miniaturization remains a serious challenge. The miniaturization of the capacitors is crucially limited by the dielectric constant of CMOS compatible materials. It may be possible to overcome this problem with a radically differ- ent approach that rests on different physical principles for the implementation of artiﬁcial spiking neurons. One way to reduce energy consumption in artiﬁcial neu- rons and other approaches to brain-inspired computing is to exploit the pronounced non-linear properties of quantum ma- terials. The principal idea behind this energy efﬁciency is that in quantum materials a small electrical stimulus may produce a large response that can be electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic, etc. through a material change of state. For ex- ample, several oxides exhibit a metal-insulator transition in which a small voltage or current can produce a large (several orders of magnitude) change in resistivity.8Furthermore, dur- ing the resistive switching, Joule heating provides an intrinsic physical mechanism
__label__energy	Markovian Decentralized Ensemble Control for Demand Response Guanze Peng, Robert Mieth, Deepjyoti Deka, and Yury Dvorkin Abstract With the advancement in smart grid and smart energy devices, demand response becomes one of the most economic and feasible solutions to ease the load stress of the power grids during peak hours. In this work, we propose a fully decentralized ensemble control framework with consensus for demand response (DR) events and compatible control methods based on random policies. We show that under the consensus that is tailored to DR, our proposed decentralized control method yields the same optimality as the centralized control method in both myopic and multistage settings. I. I NTRODUCTION Supported by the evolution of digital communication and control technology, electric power system operators deploy demand response (DR) programs to efﬁciently meet peak electricity demand and avoid network congestion. According to the US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, potential peak demand reductions in the United States reached a total of approximately 31 GW in 2019 1 . In the California Independent System Operator market, the total amount of demand response capacity registered grew from 0 to 3.6 GW between June 2014 and June 2021 2 . DR programs en- gage distributed demand-side resources, e.g., controllable residential and commercial loads, by encouraging or directly controlling electricity customers to change their power con- sumption in exchange for an incentive. To scale program efﬁciency, individual demand side resources (units) are often aggregated into ensembles operated by a DR aggregator or a utility system operator. Common DR architectures are centralized and set high communication and computation requirements, which re- quires the complete state information of all units in an ensemble, and all computation tasks to be concentrated and performed at the system operator end. To improve computa- tional feasibility, we propose a decentralized DR framework with consensus, where units determine power consumption through negotiation among themselves, which aligns with the recent developments in smart power distribution system infrastructure. DR decentralization is facilitated by the estab- lished communication protocol OpenADR 2.0 3, 4 , which is a protocol that standardizes the secure communication of dispatch signals (e.g., requests for load reduction) from the system operator to the individual units via a communication module. However, as this communication module is also equipped with Virtual End Node, units can use OpenADR 2.0 to also communicate safely with each other. This enables a decentralized controller design, which can distribute the computation and communication load among all units. Whenever DR is needed to support system operations, the system operator schedules a so-called DR event. We call (a) (b) Fig. 1: Decentralized ensemble control with different consensus schemes: in the 0- th stage of both schemes, the system operator broadcasts the message to the ensemble, informing them the start of DR event and the cost of each stage. (a) Global consensus scheme: units reach consensus in the ﬁrst stage after being informed and do not communicate with each other in the following stages. (b) Local consensus scheme: units communicate with each other and reach consensus in each stage. the time period between two valid consecutive OpenADR 2.0 dispatch commands the stage of a DR event. Since the dispatch commands are only valid for 15 minutes at most and DR events can last for hours, a DR event is a multistage process by deﬁnition. In the proposed framework, units are coupled through the consensus regarding their energy consumption policies. Particularly, we study two contrasting consensus schemes, global consensus andlocal consensus , both of which are illustrated in Fig. 1. Under the former, communication and consensus-forming between units is limited to the ﬁrst stage. The latter assumes that units can communicate and reach consensus at every stage. We show that the total communication throughput for the local consensus scheme is signiﬁcantly reduced compared to global consensus, which facilitates practical implementation. We summarize our main contributions as follows: We propose a decentralized ensemble control framework with consensus. We leverage the Bayesian prior stage concept and propose a framework with prior consensus such that consensus is achieved among all units; We show that the designed decentralized controller is equivalent to a corresponding centralized one; We show that the global and local multistage consen- suses yield the same energy consumption policy; We introduce a distributed gradient based algorithm that allows units to reach consensus.arXiv:2206.01912v1 eess.SY 4 Jun 2022 We build on existing work on randomized DR control, e.g., 5 -7 , and leverage Linearly Solvable Markov decision processes (LS-MDP) 8 to model the behavior of a DR ensemble. LS-MDP have been shown to be particularly suitable for thermostatically controlled loads 9 , which play a central role for real-world DR programs as the thermal inertia of cooling and heating systems allows temporally adjusting power consumption without compromising primary system functions and causing large discomfort to electricity customers. Related work in 10, 11 derived and applied optimal control policies for thermostatically controlled load (TCL) ensembles, modeled as LS-MDPs, to support power system operations, while minimizing the difference from individual default energy consumption patterns and thus the overall discomfort. Comparing with existing decentralized control method 10 -12 , our proposed model provides an elegant analytical solution which is easy to implement and can be easily extended to other demand response scenar- ios such as heating systems. The decentralized consensus- based approach proposed in this paper is closely related to the decentralized LS-MDP 13 , which studied a network of Bayesian agents in continuous Markov Processes (MP) without consensus. The introduced algorithm resembles dis- tributed gradient algorithms over (random) networks 14, 15 . II. P RELIMINARIES Consider an ensemble of Nunits given by set N f1;2;:::;Ng. We model the operation of each unit using a shared set of states S f1;2;:::;Sgreﬂecting its power consumption. We assume in this paper: Assumption 1: Every unit can transition from any state in Sto any state in S. Moreover, the n-th uncontrolled unit at state i transitions to state j in the next stage with probability p(n) i j2(0;1)such that åj2S p(n) i
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Secure and Resilient Low-Rate Connectivity for Smart Energy Applications through Power Talk in DC Microgrids Čedomir Stefanović, Marko Angjelichinoski, Pietro Danzi, and Petar Popovski1 ABSTRACT The future smart grid is envisioned as a network of interconnected microgrids (MGs) small-scale local power networks comprising generators, storage capacities and loads. MGs bring unprecedented modularity, efficiency, sustainability, and resilience to the power grid as a whole. Due to the high share of renewable generation, MGs require innovative concepts for control and optimization, giving rise to a novel class of smart energy applications, in which communications represent an integral part. In this paper, we review power talk, a communication technique specifically developed for direct current MGs, which exploits the communication potential residing within the MG power equipment. Depending on the smart energy application, power talk can be used either as a primary communication enabler, or an auxiliary communication system that provides resilient and secure operation. The key advantage of power talk is that it derives its availability, reliability, and security from the very MG elements, outmatching standard, off-the shelf communication solutions. 1. INTRODUCTION The architecture of the power grid has been experiencing a paradigm shift from the classic organization in bulk-generation, transmission and distribution subsystems into a flexible structure with a high penetration of microgrids (MGs), see Fig 1. MG is a localized collection of distributed energy resources (DERs), storages and loads, operating connected to the main grid or in a standalone, islanded mode 1 . The goal is to achieve self-sustainable, efficient and resilient operation, thereby improving the operation of the entire power network. Recent advances show that MGs are becoming economically viable 2 . In particular, direct current (DC) MGs are gaining popularity due the fact that most of renewable DERs, storages and modern loads are DC in nature, implying simpler implementation, reduced costs, higher efficiency and increased resilience to the main grid disturbances with respect to AC MGs. However, there are several challenges yet to be solved to foster large scale implementation of DC MGs. From the research and development angle, the major challenge is to incorporate control and communication features pertinent to DC MGs 2,3 . Specifically, renewable DERs show high unpredictability and variability in comparison to traditional bulk generation, requiring novel control and optimization approaches, both at the intra- and inter-MG level. DC MG control architecture is organized in primary, secondary, and tertiary layers 3 . The primary control is the fastest, operating in the frequency range 0.1 1 MHz, regulating the MG voltage and power flow such that high frequency load generation variations are compensated. It is implemented in a decentralized manner, and it uses the measurements locally available to DERs and the control references provided by the tertiary control. It. The secondary control operates using frequency 1 10 kHz, its task is to eliminate the steady state voltage drift and power sharing mismatch, introduced by the primary control due to its decentralized nature. Finally, the tertiary control comprises smart energy applications that minimize power dissipation losses and generation costs, as well as maximize the economic viability of the system by providing the optimal references for the primary control. It is the slowest control level, running periodically every 5-30 minutes. Typical smart energy applications include Optimal Power Flow (OPF), Optimal Economic Dispatch (OED), Demand-Response (DR), Unit Commitment (UC), etc. 1 The authors are with the Department of Electronic Systems, Aalborg University, Denmark. Figure 1: Cluster of DC microgrids: DC MGs are characterized by extensive use of power electronic converters that regulate the power generation, executing intra- and inter-MG control algorithms. Unlike the primary control layer, the secondary and tertiary control layers require information that is not available via local measurements. Depending on the control application, this information may comprise voltage current measurement at remote DERs, instant DER generation capacities, loads demands and admittance matrix, control directives, information on generation costs, ramp-up constraints etc. 3 . In other words, secondary and tertiary MG control applications require communication support. The actual amount of data that should be communicated is small, as typical for machine-to-machine communications, and the periodicity of the communication exchanges should follow the periodicity (i.e., frequency) of the control application. The information exchange is also required to enable higher level inter-MGs operation, executed within and among MG clusters, see Fig. 1. In fact, modern MGs have the capability of integrating with the existing power system and dealing with bidirectional exchange of power, thus increasing the overall grid availability in case of fault events and reducing the stress on overloaded portions of the system 4 . Moreover, the interaction of PECs running higher level control applications enables state estimation, topology identification, energy trading, and market optimization. These higher layer MG control applications, also including tertiary MG control, form an Intelligent Energy DC Microgrid Powerelectronic converters main grid DC MG bus DERenergy storageloadsDERprimary controlinner loopsvoltage controlcurrent controlpulse width modulationlowpassfilterouter loopvoltage and current samplescurrent samplesdroop control power talk subsystemupper-layer control DC MicroGrid DC MicroGridDC MicroGrid Secondary Control: Voltage restorationDC Distribution SystemIntelligent Energy Management System Energy trading Market optimization State Estimation Topology I dentific a tionTertia ry Control: Voltage restoration Optimal Power Flow Economic Dispatch Demand Response Management System (IEMS), see Fig. 1, which supervises and optimizes the overall MG operation in a broader environment where the MG is placed 5 , like commercial buildings and residential blocks. To meet the communication needs of intra- and inter-MG control and optimization, a standard approach is to employ an external communication solution, such as wireless or powerline communications (PLC) 3,4,6 . However, relying only on external communication systems may compromise the goal of self-sustainable and resilient MG operation, due to their limited availability, reliability and security, cf. 7 . In this paper, we propose a communication framework for DC MGs that exploits only the communication potential residing within the MG power equipment. Depending on the smart energy application, power talk can be used either as a primary communication enabler, or an auxiliary communication system that fosters resilient and secure operation. Besides the fact that
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	arXiv:2010.01257v1 eess.SY 3 Oct 2020On the Value of Energy Storage in Generation Cost Reduction Yue Shen, Maxim Bichuch, and Enrique Mallada Abstract This work seeks to quantify the beneﬁts of using energy storage toward the reduction of the energy generatio n cost of a power system. A two-fold optimization framework is provided where the ﬁrst optimization problem seeks to ﬁnd the optimal storage schedule that minimizes operational co sts. Since the operational cost depends on the storage capacity, a second optimization problem is then formulated with the aim of ﬁnding the optimal storage capacity to be deployed. Although, in general, these problems are difﬁcult to solve, we provide a lower bound on the cost savings for a parametrized family of demand proﬁles. The optimization framework is numerically illustrated using real-world demand data from ISO New England. Numerical results show that energy storage can reduce energy generation costs by at least 2.5 . I. I NTRODUCTION The electric power grid is undergoing one of the most fundamental transformations since its inception 1 . Tech no- logical development of renewable energy sources 2 couple d with the need to reduce carbon emissions is transforming the generation mix 3 . Alongside, the electriﬁcation of transportation is driving a rapid growth on global electric ity demand 4 . Among the many challenges that this paradigm shift introduces is the lack of synchronism between the time s when renewable energy is available and the time when energy demand is required. Energy storage is often seen as tentativ e solution towards addressing this challenge due to its abili ty to dispatch energy to shift energy availability across space, via deployment of distributed storage 5 , and across time 6 . Thus the additional ﬂexibility that storage provides, toge ther with the steady decrease on build and installation prices, has stimulated the deployment of several grid-scale storag e systems, e.g., 7 and 8 . However, despite the clear beneﬁts that storage introduces , many questions regarding storage investment as well as efﬁcient storage operation remained, to this day, unanswer ed. The key difﬁculty on this regard is that the cost of using storage is not a function of the instantaneous power, as it is the case for generators, where the cost can be mapped to the cost of the fuel consumed for generating electricity. Inste ad, the cost of using storage indirectly arises from the unit degradation that is experienced during charging discharg ing cycles 9 . Y . Shen and E. Mallada are with the ECE Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and M. Bichuch is with t he Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, Johns Ho pkins University, 3400 North Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21218, US A yshen50,mbichuch,mallada jhu.edu . This work was supported by US DoE EERE award DE-EE0008006, NSF through grants CNS 1544771, EPCN 1711188, AMPS 1736448, DMS 1736414, and CAREER 1752362, and Johns Hopkins University D iscovery Award.This last observation is in contrast with the vast majority of existing works which formulate the cost of storage with- out detailed degradation model. Examples of this approach includes 10 12 , which typically approach the storage operation by solving an optimization problem whose cost depend on ﬁxed storage life-span. Only very recently, the question of how to optimally coordinate resources whose cos t depend on instantaneous power with resources whose cost depend in energy trajectories, has started to be considered .In 13 , the problem of optimal coordination of limited-energ y demand response and generation is considered. Similarly, 14 , 15 consider the cost storage degradation and propos es an online algorithm with optimality guarantees. In this paper, by perusing a path aligned to the works 14 , 15 , we seek to quantify the economic beneﬁt of using storage arbitrage as means to reduce energy production cost s. To this aim, we formulate a two-fold optimization frame- work aiming at: (a) ﬁnding the optimal storage operation that minimizes the total operational cost (including stora ge degradation cost); and (b) ﬁnding the optimal amount of storage that need to be deployed in the system to achieve the maximum beneﬁt. Despite the complexity of such problems, we provide a sub-optimal policy for a paramterized family of demand trajectories that allow us quantify a lower bound on the potential operational savings. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Our problem setting, including the energy system model, as well as a general problem formulation of the optimal operational problem that seeks to optimally control storage to reduce operations costs, and the planning problem , that seeks to ﬁnd the optimal storage deployment, are presented in sectio n II. In Section III, we describe the proposed approach to quantify the potential beneﬁts by reformulating the above- mentioned general problems. The analytical solutions to ou r reformulations are presented in Section IV and Section V. Finally, preliminary numerical analysis, and conclusions , are provided in sections VI and VII, respectively. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION In this section, we describe the energy system that we seek to study and formalize the two problems that we consider in this paper. A. System Model We used(t) 0to denote the net uncontrollable power demand possibly including renewable and p(t)the total aggregate power generation of a system operator at time t t0,tf . The total energy stored in the system at time tis denoted by e(t). The energy e(t)evolves according to e(t) u(t), (1) whereuis the rate of change of stored energy. We adopt the convention that u(t) 0implies charging, whereas u(t) 0 means discharging. The total storage capacity is denoted by Cand the maximum charging discharging rate by r, i.e., r u(t) r C ǫ, and0 e(t) C. (2) The ratio ǫ C rreferred as technology parameter and it is aimed at representing different technological features of the storage. We further let Tlsdenote the total lifespan of the energy system. Finally, the net load of the energy system d(t) u(t)is supplied by external power supply p(t), i.e., p(t) d(t) u(t). (3)
__label__energy	arXiv:2206.12679v3 eess.SY 28 Dec 2022Optimal Regulation of Prosumers and Consumers in Smart Energy Communities Syed Eqbal Alam and Dhirendra Shukla J. Herbert Smith Centre for Technology Management Entrepr eneurship University of New Brunswick Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada Abstract In smart energy communities, households of a par- ticular geographical location make a cooperative group to a chieve the community s social welfare. Prosumers are the users tha t both consume and produce energy. In this paper, we develop stochastic and distributed algorithms to regulate the numb er of consumers and the number of prosumers with heterogeneous energy sources in the smart energy community. In the communi ty, each prosumer has one of the heterogeneous energy sources such as solar photovoltaic panels or wind turbines installe d in their household. The prosumers and consumers decide in a probabilistic way when to be active. They keep their informa tion private and do not need to share it with other prosumers or consumers in the community. Moreover, we consider a central server that keeps track of the total number of active prosume rs and consumers and sends feedback signals in the community at each time step; the prosumers and consumers use these signal s to calculate their probabilistic intent. We present experi mental results to check the efﬁcacy of the algorithms. We observe th at the average number of times prosumers and consumers are active reaches the optimal value over time, and the communit y asymptotically achieves the social optimum value. Keywords Distributed optimization, optimal control, energy trading, energy prosumer, energy consumer, smart city, ene rgy communities. I. I NTRODUCTION The smart energy community has attracted signiﬁcant inter- est from the research community recently. It consists of ene rgy prosumers and consumers. Energy prosumers are the users that can consume and produce energy; for example, households connected to a power grid to consume energy and have solar photovoltaic panels on their rooftops to produce ener gy locally. In smart energy communities, members of a particul ar geographical location make a cooperative group to achieve a common goal. Moreover, in the smart energy communities, the prosumers provide the surplus produced energy to community members or a grid for monetary beneﬁts or to store energy in a community energy storage. Furthermore, the prosumers may also contribute surplus energy to philanthropic works and h elp handle social challenges such as energy poverty . In particular, This work is supported in part by the Mitacs Accelerate progr am (grant number IT24468) and Gray Wolf Analytics, Fredericton, New B runswick, Canada. The paper is published in the proceedings of the 2022 IEEE Int erna- tional Smart Cities Conference (ISC2), September 2022, Pap hos, Cyprus. It can be cited as: S. E. Alam and D. Shukla, Optimal Regula- tion of Prosumers and Consumers in Smart Energy Communities , 2022 IEEE International Smart Cities Conference (ISC2), 2022, p p. 1-7, doi: 10.1109 ISC255366.2022.9921890.the members can support specially-abled people. Note that energy poverty is the lack of sufﬁcient energy for primary human activities 1 . The smart energy community utilizes the existing local energy infrastructures and enables comm u- nity members participation, cooperation, and coordinati on for the community s welfare 2 . In addition, the smart energy communities facilitate balancing local energy production and consumption and aid in balancing community members needs and preferences fairly. They also help keep monetary beneﬁt s within the community. Furthermore, it can help in achieving cleaner and more affordable energy. Additionally, roughly speaking, smart energy communities can facilitate social i nter- action and build relationships among the community members that are unavailable in the traditional energy systems 2 . These potentials can help in societies prosperity, and in becomi ng an energy community self-sustainable 3 , 4 , 5 ; furtherm ore, it can help in achieving net-zero emission targets. As the local weather affects the energy production from renewable sources, we can reduce the impact by using hetero- geneous energy sources as considered in the paper. Moreover , one of the main challenges in realizing smart energy com- munities is developing mechanisms to handle the uncertaint y in energy production and consumption patterns. Particular ly, the problem of regulating prosumers and consumers with optimality constraints, wherein the overall cost to the ene rgy community is minimized, is not well studied. Our work contributes toward addressing this problem. We assume that members (prosumers) in the smart energy community have heterogeneous renewable energy sources, some prosumers install solar panels, and others install wind turbines in th eir households. The prosumers provide excess produced energy to some community members, called energy consumers . Costs are associated with the installation and transmission of en ergy from renewable sources. Our principal contribution in the paper is to develop distributed and stochastic algorithms f or the smart energy community that regulate the number of energy consumers and the number of prosumers with heterogeneous energy sources to minimize the overall cost to the energy community. The algorithms are motivated by the ideas from adaptive control and stochastic approximation, 6 , 7 , 8 . The developed model consists of prosumers with heteroge- neous energy sources, energy consumers, and a central serve r. The prosumers and the consumers join the energy community at the start of the system; they decide to be active in the community based on a probabilistic rule. Each prosumer and consumer has a cost function that depends on the average number of times they actively participate in the energy com- munity. Furthermore, the members do not need to share their information, for example, the cost functions, the derivati ves of the cost functions, or the average number of times they were active with other members. Furthermore, the central server keeps track of the aggregate number of active prosumers and active consumers at a time step the central server updates and broadcasts feedback signals for prosumers and consumer s in the community. Using the feedback signals, the derivativ es of the cost functions, and an average of the number
__label__energy	1 Abstract In the existing literatures for the risk evaluation of electricity-gas integrated energy system (EGIES), the impacts of gas leakage in pipelines are ignored. This paper presents a method to incorporate the failure modes of gas pipeline leakage in EGIES risk evaluation. A Markov state tr ansition model of gas pipeline with multi-state and multi-mode tr ansition process, and a bi-level Monte Carlo sampling method for this model are developed. A stochastic topology change based network model of EGIES considering the pipeline leakage failure modes is presented. The risk indices for EGIES based on the load shedding, including those specifically for gas leakage risks, are also proposed. An EGIES with a modified RBTS and a 7-node gas system was used to demonstrate an application of the proposed method and models. The results indicate that pipeline leakage failures have significant impacts on the risk of EGIES. Ignoring pipeline leakage failures in the risk evaluation of EG IES will result in an overly underestimation of system risk and most likely a misleading conclusion in system planning. Index Terms electricity-gas integrated energy system, risk evaluation, gas leak, pipeline leakage failure. NOMENCLATURE Variables : Π Vector of gas pressure squared at gas nodes. Sst Vector of gas discharging from gas storages. Scgc Vector of gas consumption in gas compressors. Sgc Vector of gas flow through gas compressors. Sp Vector of gas flow through gas pipelines. Sgw Vector of gas supply from gas wells. SL Vector of gas load at gas nodes. SLc Vector of gas load curtailment at gas nodes. Sgpg Vector of gas consumed by GPGs. Sp2g Vector of gas generated by P2Gs. Pgpg Vector of power generated by GPGs. Pp2g Vector of power consumed by P2Gs. Pg Vector of power generated by general generators. Pw Vector of wind power. Pwc Vector of wind power curtailment. PL Vector of electric load at electrical nodes. PLc Vector of electric load curtailment at electrical nodes. Incidence Matrix : M gwg Gas node-gas well incidence matrix. MLg Gas node-gas load incidence matrix. This work was supported in part by the National Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars (51725701) and the National 111 Project of China (Project No. B08036). Yi Tang, Yuan Zhao, Wenyuan Li, Kaigui Xie and Juan Yu are with the State Key Laboratory of Power Transmission Equipment and System Security and New Technology, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 400044 China. (e-mails: tangyi cqu.edu.cn; yuanzhao msn.cn; wenyuan.li ieee.org; kaiguixie vip.163.com; yujuancqu qq.com). Mstg Gas node-gas storage incidence matrix. Mpg Gas node-pipeline incidence matrix. Mgcg Gas node-compressor incidence matrix. Mgpgg Gas node-GPG incidence matrix. Mp2gg Gas node-P2G incidence matrix. MTLe Electrical node-transmission line incidence matrix. Mgpge Electrical node-GPG incidence matrix. Mp2ge Electrical node-P2G incidence matrix. Mge Electrical node-general generator incidence matrix. MLe Electrical node-electrical load incidence matrix. Mwe Electrical node-wind turbine incidence matrix. Operator and Function for Matrix or Vector : A B Element-by-element product of A and B. A B Element-by-element division of A and B. A k Element-wise power of A. (A)T Transpose of matrix A. A Compute the absolute value of element in A. sgn(A) Compute the sign of element in A. I. INTRODUCTION ORE and more gas-fired power generation stations (GPG) are deployed in power systems because of distinct advantages of GPGs over conventional coal plants 1-3 . At the same time, the emerging technology of power to gas (P2G) links power systems and gas systems together by an energy conversion path in which excessive electricity, such as that from wind power generation, is converted into synthetic natural gas 4 . The wide deployment of GPGs and P2Gs greatly intensify the interaction between the two formerly independent energy infrastructures, developing the concept of electricity-gas integrated energy system (EGIES). An important topic in this field is the risk assessment of EGIES. Compared with the risk evaluation of power systems alone 5-9 , the risk evaluation of EGIES is more challenging due to complex interactions between the two subsystems and the operational characteristics of EGIES. On the one hand, the influence of a certain fault in one subsystem may quickly spread to the other subsystem 10 . For example, once a serious fault happens in the gas supply pipeline of a GPG station, the gas-fired generators will be shut down. On the other hand, the bidirectional energy exchangeability between two subsystems brings beneficial flexibilities for EGIES to deal with accidents. For instance, if some fault happens in the gas network, interrupting the upstream gas supply, gas loads can still be supplied by the connected P2Gs. Therefore, it is necessary to develop the models methods for the risk evaluation of EGIES. Yi Tang, Yuan Zhao , Wenyuan Li, Kaigui Xie, Juan Yu Incorporating Gas Pipeline Leakage Failure Modes in Risk Evaluation of Electricity-Gas Integrated Energy Systems M 2 Many efforts have been made in this regard. The risk assessment of a power system considering only gas supply source reliability was carried out in 11-12 . The reliability of an energy hub without considering constraints of energy networks was assessed in 13-17 . In 18 , the availability of energy hub output considering network constraints was evaluated under a given load level. In 19-21 , the risk analysis of EGIES was addressed at the energy distribution level. In 22-25 , the network constraints were considered for performing a systematic analysis of EGIES reliability. The failure modes of gas pipelines can be divided into three types: pinhole accident, hole accident and rupture accident 26 . When a severe rupture accident happens to a pipeline due to an external interference or ground movement, the upstream gas cannot pass through the failed pipeline to meet downstream demands. However, when a pinhole or hole accident happens to a pipeline, the upstream gas can still supply the downstream gas load but some unintended gas leaks would be released to the environment until the leak accident is detected and repaired. Unfortunately, a major deficiency in the existing literatures for the risk evaluation of EGIES is that only rupture failures are considered but the
__label__energy	1 The cc-pV5Z-F12 basis set: reaching the basis set limit in explicitly correlated calculations Kirk A. Peterson, a Manoj K. Kesharwani,b and Jan M.L. Martin b (a) Department of Chemistry, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164-4630. Email: kipeters wsu.edu FAX: 1 509 335 8867 (b) Department of Organic Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Reḥovot, Israel. Email: gershom weizmann.ac.il. FAX: 972 8 934 4142 Molecular Physics, in press. Received September 18, 2014; Accepted November 4, 2014. Nicholas C. Handy Memorial Issue. Pre-assigned DOI: 10.1080 00268976.2014.985755 ABSTRACT. We have developed and benchmarked a new extended basis set for explicitly correlated calculations, namely cc-pV5Z-F12. It is offered in two variants, cc-pV5Z-F12 and cc-pV5Z-F12(rev2), the latter of which has additional basis functions on hydrogen not present in the cc-pVnZ-F12 (n D,T,Q) sequence. A large uncontracted reference basis set is used for benchmarking. cc-pVnZ-F12 (n D 5) is shown to be a convergent hierarchy. Especially the cc-pV5Z-F12(rev2) basis set can yield the valence CCSD component of total atomization energies 2 (TAEs), without any extrapolation, to an accuracy normally associated with aug-cc-pV 5,6 Z extrapolations. SCF components are functionally at the basis set limit, while the MP2 limit can be approached to as little as 0.01 kcal mol without extrapolation. The determination of (T) appears to be the most difficult of the three components and cannot presently be accomplished without extrapolation or scaling. (T) extrapolation from cc-pV T,Q Z-F12 basis sets, combined with CCSD-F12b cc-pV5Z-F12 calculations appears to be an accurate combination for explicitly correlated thermochemistry. For accurate work on noncovalent interactions, basis set superposition error with the cc-pV5Z-F12 basis set is shown to be so small that counterpoise corrections can be neglected for all but the most exacting purposes. Table of Contents Graphic (if desired): 3 Introduction Wavefunction ab initio calculations are for the most part a two-dimensional convergence problem (the Pople diagram 1) with basis set convergence on one axis and the electron correlation method (a.k.a. n-particle treatment) on the other. For heavy elements, relativity2 becomes the third major dimension, leading to the Császár cube.3 For systems with mild nondynamical correlation, the gold standard CCSD(T)4,5 coupled cluster6 method is quite close to the full configuration interaction limit, leaving basis set convergence as the main bottleneck. With conventional one-particle basis sets, convergence is quite slow,7 9 although its comparatively slow and monotonic character naturally suggests extrapolation procedures when correlation consistent basis sets are used (e.g.,10 12). Explicitly correlated methods,13 20 in which some geminal terms that explicitly depend on the interelectronic distance are added to the 1-particle basis set, exhibit greatly accelerated basis set convergence. (Early work, including his own, has been reviewed by Handy;21 for later reviews, see Refs.22 26) A number of forays into explicitly correlated computational thermochemistry were recently made by the present authors27 30 and by others.31,32 The somewhat disappointing conclusion emerged that, while F12 methods allow one to quickly reach the general neighborhood of the basis set limit, approaching more closely in a consistent way becomes quite challenging. Specifically, while basis set convergence in pure one-particle approaches (e.g., in W4 theory,33,34 the HEAT approach,35,36 and the FPD approach30,37 40) tends to be smooth with monotonically increasing TAEs (total atomization energies), basis set convergence of coupled cluster TAEs from F12 methods can be oscillatory or even (anomalously) monotonically decreasing. 4 One reason for this problem resides in the use of basis sets not specifically optimized for explicitly correlated calculations. A team involving one of us sought to address this problem by the development of the cc-pVnZ-F12 and cc-pCVnZ-F12 basis sets41 43 (n D,T,Q), which were optimized at the MP2-F12 level in the presence of the appropriate geminal terms. These basis sets do appear to have smoother convergence behavior than orbital-optimized aug-cc-pVnZ basis sets (n D,T,Q,5,6) but obviously do not reach as far, and basis set extrapolation was still found to be necessary.44 A crude rule of thumb has emerged22 24 from practical applications, namely, that F12 calculations gain the user between two and three zetas over their conventional counterparts. If that is so, expanding the cc-pVnZ-F12 by an additional member (n 5) may bring us within subchemical accuracy of the basis set limit, and indeed altogether eliminate the need for basis set extrapolation. In the present paper, we will develop and present such a basis set for H and B Ne, and by thorough benchmarks show that it is indeed sufficiently close to the basis set limit for this purpose. Computational details Most calculations were carried out using MOLPRO 2012.145 running on the Faculty of Chemistry HPC cluster at the Weizmann Institute of Science. Some additional CCSD(F12) and open-shell atomic CCSD(F12 ) calculations were carried out using TURBOMOLE46 6.4 on the same hardware. For the cc-pVnZ-F12 correlation consistent basis sets (n D,T,Q) optimized for F12 calculations,41 we employed the auxiliary basis sets47 and CABS (complementary auxiliary basis sets)48 developed for use with them, as well as the Weigend49,50 JK-fitting basis sets which are 5 the MOLPRO default. Unless indicated otherwise, the geminal exponent values β recommended in Ref.44 (rather than those of Ref.41) were used: β 0.9 for cc-pVDZ-F12, β 1.0 for cc-pVTZ-F12, and β 1.0 for cc-pVQZ-F12. The SCF component was improved through the CABS correction . 19,51 For the REF basis sets (see below), we employed very large uncontracted auxiliary basis sets previously reported in Ref.44. For the V5Z-F12 basis set, we considered two combinations of auxiliary basis sets: the first is that used for the REF basis sets, the second is the combination of Weigend s aug-cc-pV5Z JKFIT basis set50 for the Coulomb and exchange elements with Hättig s aug-cc-pwCV5Z MP2FIT basis set52 for both the RI-MP2 parts and for the complementary auxiliary basis set (CABS). For comparison, some F12 calculations were run with ordinary aug-cc-pVnZ basis sets,53 where the JKFIT basis set50 was extended by a single even-tempered layer of diffuse functions, RI-MP2 basis set was again taken from Ref. 52 but the CABS basis sets of Yousaf and Peterson 54 were employed. Our discussion focuses
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Highlights Energy Security and Resilience: Reviewing Concepts and Advancing Planning Perspectives for Transforming Integrated Energy Systems Richard Schmitz,Franziska Flachsbarth,Leonie Sara Plaga,Martin Braun,Philipp Härtel Review of interrelations between energy security, resilience, and related terms Classification of system disturbances into shock events and slow burn processes Compilation of recourse options to provide strategies for an integrated energy system Clarification of trade-offs between resilience levels and system costs Policy recommendations aiming to integrate disturbances into energy system planningarXiv:2504.18396v1 eess.SY 25 Apr 2025 Energy Security and Resilience: Reviewing Concepts and Advancing Planning Perspectives for Transforming Integrated Energy Systems Richard Schmitza,b, , Franziska Flachsbarthc, Leonie Sara Plagad, Martin Brauna,band Philipp Härtela,b aFraunhofer IEE, Fraunhofer Institute for Energy Economics and Energy System Technology, Joseph-Beuys-Str. 8, 34117 Kassel, Germany bUniversity of Kassel, Department of Sustainable Electrical Energy Systems, Wilhelmshöher Allee 73, 34121 Kassel, Germany cÖko-Institut e.V., Research Division Energy Climate, Merzhauser Str. 173, 79100 Freiburg, Germany dRuhr University Bochum, Chair of Energy Systems and Energy Economics, Universitätsstr. 150, 44801 Bochum, Germany ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Energy system planning Energy security Resilience Shock events Slow burn processes Recourse options TerminologyAbstract Recent events, including the pandemic, geopolitical conflicts, supply chain disruptions, and climate change impacts, have exposed the critical need to ensure energy security and resilience in energy systems. We review existing definitions and interrelations between energy security and resilience, conceptualising these terms in the context of energy system transformations. We introduce a classi- ficationofdisturbancesintoshockeventsandslowburnprocessestohighlightkeychallengestoenergy systemresilience.Examplesillustratetheirdistinctimpactsontechnical,economic,andenvironmental systemperformanceovertime.Wecompilerelevantrecourseoptionsacrossresiliencecapacitylevels and system planning horizons to address these challenges, emphasising actionable strategies for an increasingly integrated energy system. Finally, we propose policy recommendations to integrate shock events and slow burn processes into future energy system planning, enabling forward-looking decision-making and system design to analyse and mitigate potential disruptions. 1. Introduction Energy security and resilience have become central to national and international policymaking (Siskos and Burgherr, 2022), particularly in the wake of the energy crisis in Europe following the Russia s attack on Ukraine (Giuli and Oberthür, 2023). While resilience is frequently discussedinengineering,environmental,orsocialprotection contexts(Mancaetal.,2017),thedistinctionbetweenenergy security, resilience, security of supply, and related terms often remains imprecise. In the past, energy security and security of supply have been evaluated primarily based on the availability and af- fordability of fossil resources (Cohen et al., 2011; Le Coq and Paltseva, 2009; Månsson et al., 2014; Novikau, 2023; Vivoda, 2009). However, in decarbonised energy systems, where fossil fuels play a minimal role, new measures and assessments for evaluating security of supply are required (Kim et al., 2025). Recent reviews highlight that security of supply now encompasses dimensions beyond fossil fuel availability (Aisyah et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2022). Nev- ertheless, most studies primarily assess existing systems and rarely account for future uncertainties and risks (Axon and Darton, 2021; Gasser, 2020; Månsson et al., 2014). Moreover, many analyses rely on energy security indices based on factors such as energy availability and pricing Corresponding author richard.schmitz iee.fraunhofer.de (R. Schmitz); f.flachsbarth oeko.de (F. Flachsbarth); leonie.plaga ruhr-uni-bochum.de (L.S. Plaga); martin.braun uni-kassel.de (M. Braun); philipp.haertel iee.fraunhofer.de (P. Härtel) ORCID(s):0000-0001-8153-3180 (R.Schmitz); 0000-0002-0813-0358 (F. Flachsbarth); 0000-0001-6339-6100 (L.S. Plaga); 0000-0003-0857-6760 (M. Braun); 0000-0002-9706-1007 (P. Härtel)(Aisyah et al., 2024), yet these indices fail to capture the energysystem sdynamicnatureandadaptivecapacity(Mar- tišauskas et al., 2018). Resilience research often focuses on the electricity sys- tem and its individual components, such as power lines or powerplants(Zidaneetal.,2025).However,asJasi unasetal. (2021) argue, the concept of resilience must be applied to the entire integrated energy system in the future. In long- termenergysystemplanning,optimisationmodelsarecom- monlyusedtorepresentthesystem sdynamiccharacteristics (DeCarolis et al., 2017). However, the existing literature provides limited guidance on effectively assessing energy securityandresiliencewithinlong-termenergysystemplan- ning. While several reviews have synthesised existing defi- nitions of energy security, resilience and security of supply (Azzuni and Breyer, 2018; Bento et al., 2024; Blum and Legey, 2012; Jasi unas et al., 2021), to our knowledge, no review specifically addresses these terms in the context of long-term energy system optimisation models. Whenexaminingpotentialthreatsandhazardstoenergy security and resilience, a distinction can be made between shock events and so-called slow burn processes (SBPs) (Hanke et al., 2021). The negative impact of such events on the energy system is often described as a deteriora- tion in energy system performance (Braun et al., 2020; Jasi unas et al., 2021; Jesse et al., 2019), yet this term typi- cally lacks differentiation between technical, economic, or environmental performance. Our work aims to introduce such a distinction and propose an approach to track perfor- mance trends over time. In considering how energy security and resilience con- cepts can be applied to planning tasks for future integrated energysystems,akeyquestionarises:whatrecourseoptions Schmitz, Flachsbarth, Plaga, Braun, Härtel: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 22 Energy Security and Resilience: Reviewing Concepts and Advancing Planning Perspectives Glossary EENS expected energy not served ENTSO-E European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity EU European Union HHI Herfindahl-Hirschman Index HILP high-impact low-probability IEA International Energy Agency KPI key performance indicator LNG liquefied natural gasLOLE loss of load expectation NIAC National Infrastructure Advisory Council of the United States SAIDI system average interruption duration index SBP slow burn process VOLL value of lost load VRE variable renewable energy XB cross-border areavailableandcanbeusedbydecisionmakerstorespond to shock events and SBPs? For instance, energy system plannerstraditionallyrelyonhistoricalweatherpatterns,yet these are becoming increasingly unreliable indicators of fu- ture conditions, undermining robust planning for resilience. Weprovideanoverviewofpotentialrecourseoptionsacross various planning horizons. Buildingontheresearchgapsidentifiedthusfarandaim- ing to support policymakers in formulating strategies that balance immediate energy needs with long-term sustaina- bility goals, this work makes the following key contribu- tions: A comprehensive review of previous definitions and a mapping of interrelations between energy security and resilience terms in the energy system domain, incorporating more than 180references; The introduction of shock events and slow burn pro- cesses (SBPs) as challenges to energy system resili- ence, including illustrative examples of their effects on technical, economic, and environmental system performance over time; Acompilationofrelevantrecourseoptionsatdifferent resilience capacity levels and system planning hori- zons as responses to disturbances; A clarification of trade-offs between resilience levels and system costs, recognising the need for political guidelines on desired system resilience levels and acceptable additional costs; Policy recommendations on how shock events and SBPs can be incorporated
__label__energy	XXX -X-XXXX -XXXX -X XX XX.00 20XX IEEE Identification of Utility -Scale Renewable Energy Penetration Threshold in a Dynamic Setting Hashem Albhrani , Student Member, IEEE , Reetam Sen Biswas, Student Member, IEEE , and Anamitra Pal, Senior Member, IEEE School of Electrical, Computer, and Energy Engineering Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona -85287, USA Email: halbhran asu.edu, rsenbisw asu.edu, anamitra.pal asu.edu Abstract Integration of renewable energy resources with the electric grid is necessary for a sustainable energy future. However, increas ed penetration of inverter based resources (IBR s) reduce grid inertia , which might then compromise power system reliability. Therefore, p ower utilities are often interested in identifying the maximum IBR penetration limit for their system . The proposed research presents a methodology to identify the IBR penetration threshold beyond which voltage , frequen cy, and tie -line limit s will be exceeded . The sensitivity of the IBR penetration threshold to momentary cessation due to low voltages, transmission versus distribution connected solar generation, and stalling of induction motors are also analyzed . Dynamic simulation studies conducted on a 24,000 -bus model of the Western Interconnection (WI) demonstrate the practicality of the proposed approach . Keywords Inverter based resources (IBRs), Inertia , Reliability, Power system dynamics I. INTRODUCTION If we continue to use conventional fossil -fuel based energy resources (e.g., coal, oil , and natural gas) in an unabated fashion , it is only a matter of time before they get exhausted 1 . Additionally , the increased use of fossil fuel s pollutes the environment and accelerates global warming. As such, to create a path for a greener and more sustain able energy future , there is a strong push for increasing the penetration of renewable generation in the modern power system 2 . Figure 1 shows the steady increase in penetration of renewable generation re sources in the US electric grid 3 . However, from the perspective of reliability, a power system with high penetration of renewable energy resources is more difficult to manage 4 - 5 . There are primarily two challenges that power utilities face with regards to high penetration of renewable energy . First, the system inertia reduces when synchronous generators are replaced with inverter based resources (IBRs) , which in turn , affects the frequency stability 6 and transient stability of the system 7 . Due to the limited fault -ride through capabilities of IBR s, voltage stability of the system is also compromised 8 . Recent research has tried to address this challenge by developing synthetic inertia (SI)-based power electronic controllers ; for instance, in 9 , SI controllers provide d fast frequency response during system transients. The second challenge is the uncertainty associated with the renewable energy resources, because of the variability of their input sources, namely, solar irradiance and wind speed . To account for the uncertainty and intermittency of IBRs , the state -of-the- art research has often focuse d on creating buffers in the form of battery energy storage systems (BES Ss) for ensuring continued reliabil ity. Figure 1: Energy generated from different sources in the US through the years 2008 -2017 in percentages and terawatt -hour (TWh) 3 . Considering the above -mentioned challenges associated with IBR s, power utilities are often interested in finding the maximum threshold of IBR penetration in their systems beyond which the reliable operation of the ir bulk power system will be compromised , and they will need interventions in the form of SI -based controllers and or BESSs . Research has already been done in simulating high renewable generation scenarios using various simulation programs 10 - 12 . In 10 , power system transient analysis was performed in a case that had the synchronous generators replaced with photovo ltaic (PV) units using MATLAB Simulink. In 11 , low frequency oscillations were identified with transient security analysis (TSA) tools and analyzed using the Prony algorithm to identify the locations where IBRs can be installed . Reference 12 perform ed dynamic contingenc y analysis in presence of renewable generation using PSLF and addresse d the risks of integrating intermittent renewable resources into the power grid. However, there is still scope for more research to be done in this area. For example , the effects of increase d penetration of IBRs on the tie-line power flows , especially during contingenc ies, has not received significant attention. Similarly, the effects of different types of systemic and or operational directives on the IBR penetration threshold must be explored in more details. Keeping these two aspects in mind, the research done in this pap er makes two contributions to the state -of-the-art: (1) It finds the maximum IBR penetration threshold of a power utility in the Western Interconnection (WI) , with regards to both WECC TPL criteria 13 , and tie-line power transfer limits 14 , and (2) It investigates how the IBR penetration threshold changes with regards to three different sensitivities, namely, momentary cessation due to low voltages, transmission versus distribution connected solar generation, and stalling of induction motors . In summary, this pape r presents a methodology to determine the ability of IBR-rich power grids to handle different system conditions . The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section II explains the approach developed to find out suitable IBR penetration threshold beyond which voltage, frequency , and tie-line limit s will be exceeded . Section III discusses the effect of different sensitivities on the IBR penetration threshold s computed in Section II . Finally, Section IV presents the concluding statements. II. PROP OSED APPROACH FOR IDENTIFYING IBR PENETRATION THRESHOLD A. Databa se A power flow and a dynamic file of the WI was provided by the utility to find the maximum I BR penetration threshold that their system can reliably handle. The power flow file had approximately 24,000 buses , 4,300 generators, 12 ,000 loads and 18,500 transmission lines . The dynamic file had information about the models for non -renewable as well as
__label__energy	1 Multicriteria design and experimental verification of hybrid renewable energy systems . Application to electric vehicle charging stations Paula Bastida- Molina1 , Elías Hurtado -Pérez1, María Cristina Moros Gómez1, Carlos V argas -Salgado1 1 Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Ingeniería Energética, Universitat Politècnica de València, Valencia, 46022, Spain Corresponding author: paubasmo etsid.upv.es Abstract The installation of electric vehicle charging stations ( EVCS ) will be essential to promote the acceptance by the users of electric vehicles ( EVs). However, if EVCS are exclusively supplied by the grid, negative impact s on its stability together with possible CO 2 emission increase s could be produced . Introduction of hybrid renewable energy sy stems (HRES) for EVCS can cope with bot h drawbacks by reducing the load on th e grid and generating clean electricity. This paper develops a methodology based on a weighted multicriteria process to design the most suitable configuration for HRES in EVCS . This methodology determines the local renewable resources and the E VCS electricity demand . Then, taking into account environmental, economic and technical aspects , it deduces the most adequate HRES design for the EVCS. Besides, an experimental stage to validate the design deduced from the multicriteria process is included . Therefore, the final design for the HRES in EVCS is supported not only by a complete numerical evaluation, but also by an experimental verification of the demand being fully covered . Methodology applicatio n to Valencia (Spain ) proves that an off- grid HRES with solar PV, wind resources and batteries support would be the most suitable configuration for th e system. This solution was also experimentally verified . Keyword Electric vehicles, charg ing station, hybrid renewable energy system, multicriteria assessm ent, modelling, experimental verification . 2 1. Introduc tion By the end of the 20th century, climate change became one of the most disturbing global issues. The exorbitant amount of greenhouse gases (GHG), especially CO 2 emissions , sent to the atmosphere is leading to an environmental destruction, whose effects could be very detrimental for the nature and, as a consequence, for our socie ty 1,2 . Transport sector has traditionally depended on fossil fuels, which are non -renewable resources and the main responsib le for CO 2 emissions 3 . For instance, almost 93 of the global transport consumption in 2017 derived from oil products 4 . Moreover, around 23 of to tal CO 2 emissions in the world were generated by this sector 5 . Due to two different reasons: finite oil resources and environmental concerns, efforts have focused on the electrification of the transportation sector 6 . Hence, a high penetration of EVs is expected to happen in almost all developing countr ies in a short mid -term future 7,8 . Despite the environmental suitability of these vehicles while riding on the roads, two drawbacks arise in this cont ext. On the one hand, the extra electricity generated to cover EVs dema nd could lead to an increase of CO 2 emissions depending on the carbon intensity ( CI) of the power sources involved in the electricity generation system 9,10 . On the other hand, this electricity increase could create negative impacts on the grid when recharging strategies remain unscheduled, concentrating the electrical consumption in peak deman d hours 11 14 . The use of microgrids with integration of renewable sources to recharge EVs emerges as a solution to cope with the two pr eviously mentioned difficulties 15 . First, the low CI of the renewable sources would d ecrease the CO 2 emissions generated during th e electricity generation stage . Second ly, the pres sure on the grid would decrease due to the demand reduction by using these microgri ds 16 . These microgrids , known as Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems ( HRES ), combine the potential of different renewable sources : solar photovoltaic, wind generators, biomass gasifiers, etc. , with the possibility to be supported by the grid or by other dispatch able resources as batteries, diesel generators or even hydrogen system in the most cutting -edge systems. Currently, the number of electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS) is very limited and far enough to cope w ith the expected introduction of electric vehicles (EVs) in the coming years. In fact, the concerns of being unable to find an EVCS to recharge the EVs emerges as one of the highest barriers for the users to acquire this kind of vehi cles 17 . Therefore , the development of fast recharging strategies together with the integration of renewable sources result essential to the integration and acceptance of EVs in our society . Several studies have addressed these topics. For instance, Huang et al. 18 developed a novel Geographic Information Sys tem to select the optimal location for the installation of new renewable EVCS depending on the current number of charging stations and renewable potentials, with the aim of minimizing the life cycle cost of the EVCS. Regarding the design process for the configuration of the HRES for EVCS , Domínguez- Navarro et al. 19 used a genetic algorithm to determine th e HRES configuration for EVCS that maximizes the profit measured by its Net Present Cost (NPC) , selecting finally a configuration with renewable generation and storage resources. Chowdhury et al. 20 studied the incorporation of a HRES for EVCS supported by the grid at th e University Campus in Dhaka (Bangladesh) , achieving a 21 of renewable generation and reducing GHG emissions by 52 .9 tCO 2 year. They used software HOMER 21 for the optimization process, looking for the lowest NPC configuration. Study 22 presents the configuration design process of an energy storage HRES in a rural community of th e Democra tic Republic of Congo with no access to the electrical grid for the recharge of electric Tuk -tuks (a traditional means of transport of the Democratic Republic 3 of Congo). The installation of this HRES enhances the replacement of the traditional com bustion engine Tuk-tuk vehicles
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 A Hierarchical Approach to Multi-Energy Demand Response: From Electricity to Multi-Energy Applications Ali Hassan, Samrat Acharya, Michael Chertkov, Deepjyoti Deka and Yury Dvorkin Abstract Due to proliferation of energy efﬁciency measures and availability of the renewable energy resources, traditional energy infrastructure systems (electricity, heat, gas) can no longer be operated in a centralized manner under the assumption that consumer behavior is inﬂexible, i.e. cannot be adjusted in return for an adequate incentive. To allow for a less centralized operating paradigm, consumer-end perspective and abilities should be integrated in current dispatch practices and accounted for in switching between different energy sources not only at the system but also at the individual consumer level. Since consumers are conﬁned within different built environments, this paper looks into an opportunity to control energy consumption of an aggregation of many residential, commercial and industrial consumers, into an ensemble. This ensemble control becomes a modern demand response contributor to the set of modeling tools for multi-energy infrastructure systems. I. I NTRODUCTION Energy delivery is a key industrial process that spans across multiple critical infrastructure systems and tightly weaves in many, if not all, residential, commercial and industrial activities. Traditionally, operations of the energy systems electricity, gas, heat are separated. Each of these systems operates based on domain-speciﬁc assumptions and ad-hoc practices. Interactions between the systems were, and to a large extend still are, minimal, therefore limiting opportunities for inter-system synergies. This paper contributes to the line of research challenging the status-quo. We identify potential for coupling interfaces between the three major energy in- frastructures and seek to coordinate their operations in order to improve energy efﬁciency, reliability and resiliency. Thus far these efforts commonly take an aggregated, system-centric view on operations and therefore often sacriﬁce details, e.g. spatio-temporal granularity and decision-making hierarchy. As a result of these simpliﬁcations, the multi-system couplings are exploited at the very top (system) level and their beneﬁts are acquired and subsequently appropriated only on behalf of the entire system. However, this paradigm runs into a conﬂict with the current push toward decentralizing infrastructure opera- tions, proliferation of control, monitoring and communication technologies and cost-effective local energy supply means. Motivated by the proliferation of demand response pro- grams in the electric power distribution sector, this paper seeks multi-system synergistic effects in the context of the hierarchical decision-making structure of the electricity, gas, heat infrastructure systems. Due to the techno-economic sim- ilarities between these infrastructure systems, the demand response experience obtained in the electricity context, aswell as the modeling methods, can support the development of similar customer engagement frameworks in gas and heat infrastructure systems. In particular, we suggest to delineate the three common levels in each infrastructure correspondent to utility, aggregator, and consumer, respectively. In turn, this delineation motivated by the real-life practice, allows to select a sufﬁciently accurate spatio-temporal granularity for each level and to design level-speciﬁc couplings. The top utility level represents infrastructure operations from the system perspective, i.e. as currently adopted by local electricity, gas, and heat utilities, and is customized to account for ubiquitous infrastructure constraints and techno-economic and policy ob- jectives. The middle level is designed to accommodate third- party service providers, e.g. energy retailers or aggregators, that can arbitrage between the utility and customers to leverage emerging information and communication technologies that intend to harvest additional economy-of-scope beneﬁts in addition to economy-of-scale beneﬁts pursued by utilities. The bottom level accounts for the decision-making process of individual customers based on their needs, preferences and often sub-rational choices. However, due to the diversity of customers and their techno-economic features, modeling individual consumers in utility and aggregator operations has proven to be challenging in the current practice. Therefore, it is imperative to create an accurate representation of the ag- gregated behavior of customers that would adequately capture their individual features and correlations among them. Taken together, these three levels make it possible to thoroughly trace and analyze electricity, gas, and heat ﬂows from local utilities to customers across domains and thus unlock opportunities to seek synergistic operations among and within levels of the critical infrastructure systems involved. The success of the proposed hierarchical approach hinges on the ability to coherently integrate all three levels in one decision-making framework that can accurately represent each perspective with a sufﬁcient level of operating detail and en- sure compatible modeling choices for each level. To this end, the approach builds on the Markov Process (MP) and Markov Decision Process (MDP) theory that has been shown in the past as an efﬁcient framework to operationalize distributed energy resources and energy delivery in a network-constrained environment. The MDP theory is also well-suited to account for model and parameter uncertainty observed by utilities, third-party providers and customers, and to seek consensus decision strategies under different assumptions on communi- cation interfaces between each level. The resulting MDP-basedarXiv:2005.02339v1 eess.SY 5 May 2020 2 decision-making framework incorporating all three levels will create new and reﬁne existing couplings between interde- pendent heat, electricity, gas infrastructures and inform on the appropriate spatio-temporal granularity for multi-system aggregation at each level. This paper makes the following contributions: 1) We generalize the use of the MDP for accurately repre- senting dynamics of energy customers at the utility and aggregate level. This representation makes it possible to accommodate the uncertain customer dynamics using stochastic and robust optimization methods. Further- more, we enhance this MDP framework to learn the optimal control policy for effectively dispatching TCL ensembles using the so-called Z-learning algorithm. This MDP framework is applicable to all energy infrastruc- ture systems. 2) The proposed MDP formulations are then integrated with the optimal power ﬂow (OPF) problem used by electric power utilities to optimally dispatch available energy resources, while ensuring that all asset and network limits are securely met. The OPF problem accommodates the uncertainty of stochastic generation resources using chance constraints (CC). The integrated problem combining the MDP and CC-OPF optimization is then solved using an iterative algorithm based on the dual decomposition, which allows for co-optimizing the MDP and CC-OPF decisions. While
__label__energy	arXiv:1706.03612v1 cs.SY 7 Jun 2017Engineering Inertial and Primary-frequency Response for Distributed Energy Resources Swaroop S. Guggilam, Changhong Zhao, Emiliano Dall Anese, Yu Christine Chen, and Sairaj V . Dhople Abstract We propose a framework to engineer synthetic- inertia and droop-control parameters for distributed ener gy re- sources (DERs) so that the system frequency in a network com- posed of DERs and synchronous generators conforms to pre- scribed transient and steady-state performance speciﬁcat ions. Our approach is grounded in a second-order lumped-paramete r model that captures the dynamics of synchronous generators and frequency-responsive DERs endowed with inertial and droop control. A key feature of this reduced-order model is t hat its parameters can be related to those of the originating hig her- order dynamical model. This allows one to systematically de sign the DER inertial and droop-control coefﬁcients leveraging classical frequency-domain response characteristics of s econd- order systems. Time-domain simulations validate the accur acy of the model-reduction method and demonstrate how DER controllers can be designed to meet steady-state-regulati on and transient-performance speciﬁcations. I. I NTRODUCTION Power-system operational practices across a broad tem- poral spectrum will need to be refashioned to acknowledge and accommodate the increased integration of distributed energy resources (DERs) and gradual displacement of fossil - fuel driven generation 1 . In this paper, we focus on time scales corresponding to inertial and primary-frequen cy response. Frequency swings immediately following large- signal generation- or load-side disturbances are conven- tionally addressed exclusively with synchronous-generat ors mechanical inertia and their turbine governors. The increa sed integration of DERs brings along the challenge of main- taining system frequency with less rotational mechanical inertia, but also offers the opportunity to exercise synthe tic inertial and droop control at time scales faster than that possible with synchronous generators. While it is widely recognized that DERs ought to provide frequency regulation as part of ancillary services 2 4 , there are as of yet a limited number of system-theoretic methods to engineer the frequency response in mixed DER-generator systems. To address the problem outlined above, our approach pro- ceeds as follows. Beginning with a detailed third-order mod el adopted for individual generators (capturing rotor-angle , fre- quency, and mechanical-power dynamics), and a second- order model adopted for aggregations of DERs (capturing DER bus-voltage angle and electrical-frequency dynamics) , S. S. Guggilam and S. V . Dhople are with the Department of Elec trical and Computer Engineering, University of Minnesota, Minnea polis, MN, USA. E-mail: guggi022, sdhople umn.edu. C. Zhao and E. Dall Anese are with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO, USA. E-mail: changhong.zhao, emiliano.dallanese nrel.gov. Y . C. Chen is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , The Uni- versity of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. E-mail: chen ece.ubc.ca.we develop a reduced second-order lumped-parameter model that acknowledges all frequency-responsive devices and in - cludes system frequency and the aggregated mechanical- power-output of generators as states. This reduced-order model retains DER synthetic-inertia and droop-control co- efﬁcients from the original model in closed form, so that these parameters can be designed to meet transient and steady-state regulation speciﬁcations for system frequen cy by leveraging well-established notions pertaining to seco nd- order systems. While some facets of the resulting lumped- parameter model are obvious in hindsight (e.g., net damping is the sum of generator-droop, load-damping and DER- droop constants, and net inertia is the sum of generator mechanical inertia and DER synthetic inertia), the choice of time constant for the state that captures the aggregated turbine-governor dynamics is far from apparent. Leverag- ing insights on the spectral properties of pertinent system matrices, we outline an optimization problem to determine this time constant. Serendipitously, we ﬁnd that this is onl y a function of individual synchronous-generator droop and turbine-governor time constants and independent of the DER control parameters. This allows us to decouple the model- reduction method from the parameter-tuning process. Related prior art can be broadly grouped into power- system model reduction methods and system-theoretic effor ts to design DER synthetic-inertia and droop-control coefﬁ- cients. Model-reduction methods for power systems is a widely researched topic 5 . However, the dominant theme here is the application of numerical techniques such as selective modal analysis, balanced truncation, and Krylov - subspace methods to detailed power-system dynamical mod- els, which are perfectly known a priori . Typically, such methods rely on myriad matrix manipulations and factoriza- tions that challenge the development of analytical methods to relate the parameters of the reduced-order model to those of the original one. In the recent work in 6 , a reduced- order dynamical model for a balancing-authority area while retaining original-system parameters was developed, but t he accuracy of the reduced-order model is not addressed. Unlik e these previous works, our proposed method: i) relates the parameters of the reduced-order system to those of the orig- inal one, ii) justiﬁes the validity of the reduced-order mod el based on spectral properties, and iii) rigorously bounds th e error between the reduced-order system and the original one . Shifting focus to literature on frequency-responsive DERs , there is a wide body of work that focuses on DER-level controller design for inertial and primary-frequency con- trol 7 9 . However, limited attention has been devoted to relating synthetic-inertia and droop-control coefﬁcie nts to the post-disturbance system-wide dynamic frequency re- sponse or steady-state frequency regulation. A few notable exceptions to this general observation are the efforts in 1 0 12 ; however to simplify the analysis, the methods therein adopt a constant-ramp-rate model for governors. A brute- force optimization-based approach that leverages sensiti vity of frequency overshoot and damping ratio to engineer inerti a and damping constants is provided in 13 . This method is based on explicitly computing the system eigenvalues, and is not accompanied with a proof of convergence or guarantee of scalability to larger networks. Finally, we br ing to attention the effort in 14 that addresses the tangentia lly related problem of determining optimal locations in the network to
__label__energy	1 Fleet-Level Environmental Assessments for Feasibility of Aviation Emission Reduction Goals Kolawole Ogunsina, Hsun Chao, Nithin Jojo Kolencherry, Samarth Jain, Kushal Moolchandani, William Crossley, and Daniel DeLaurentis Abstract The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is one of several organizations that have presented goals for future CO 2emissions from commercial aviation with the intent of alleviating the associated environmental impacts. These goals include attaining carbon-neutral growth in the year 2020 and total aviation CO 2emissions in 2050 equal to 50 of 2005 aviation CO 2emissions. This paper presents the use of a simulation-based approach to predict future CO 2emissions from commercial aviation based upon a set of scenarios developed as part of the Aircraft Technology Modeling and Assessment project within ASCENT, the FAA Center of Excellence for Alternative Jet Fuels and the Environment. Results indicate that, in future scenarios with increasing demand for air travel, it is difﬁcult to reduce CO 2emissions in 2050 to levels equal to or below 2005 levels, although neutral CO 2growth after 2020 may be possible. Index Terms Carbon Emission, Commercial Aviation, Air- craft Technology, Modeling-Based Forecasting. I. I NTRODUCTION TO encourage the reduction of negative environmental impact from an important engineering system in this case, air transportation goals that set challenging targets for future environmental impact can be important. This paper assesses differences between predicted carbon emissions from a simulation tool that models numerous aspects of commercial aviation and the carbon emission reduction goals from the International Air Transport Association (IATA). These future CO 2predictions use various economic conditions and technol- ogy improvement scenarios; other than a simple carbon pricing model, the scenarios do not incorporate other policies. IATA which represents airlines and over 80 of world- wide aviation activity, and whose formation predates that of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) provides technical and other input for airline regulation and is charged by governments to regulate various aspects of international aviation. IATA recently called for a greater urgency in the partnership between airlines and governments to ensure avia- tion remains on the leading front for industries in sustainably managing the effect of climate change 1 . IATA believes that an airline-government partnership is important for creating feasible and acceptable policies for reducing the environmental impact of commercial aviation and also vital to setting goals to evaluate the efﬁcacy of those policies. The current IATA K. Ogunsina, H. Chao, N. Kolencherry, S. Jain, and K. Moolchandani are graduate researchers in the School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Purdue University. D. DeLaurentis and W. Crossley are Professors of Aeronautics and Astro- nautics, Purdue University. Manuscript received February 2, 2018; revised April 24, 2018.reduction goals include carbon neutral growth from 2020 and cutting net CO 2emission to half of their 2005 values by 2050 1 , 2 . Fig. 1 presents these goals. Fig. 1. Aviation CO2emissions, envisioned reductions, and IATA goals 2 . The research method consists of two steps. In the ﬁrst step, the authors participated with their partners in ASCENT (the Aviation Sustainability Center), the FAA Center of Excellence for Alternative Jet Fuels and Environment, working on the project Aircraft Technology Modeling and Assessment to deﬁne several future commercial aviation scenarios 3 . These scenarios emerged from the data obtained from participants of a two-phase workshop. Workshop participants helped to deﬁne descriptors that would describe future scenarios of the U.S. commercial aviation industry; these included Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate, population growth rate, energy or fuel prices, and rate of aircraft technology development. For each of these descriptors, the workshop participants also helped set nominal, minimum and maximum levels. Each future scenario uses a different combination of these descrip- tor levels. The ASCENT Aircraft Technology and Modeling Assessment team selected combinations that sought to span a broad range of possible future outcomes. In the second step, the authors of this paper performed simulations of these future scenarios for commercial avia- tion in the U.S. using Fleet-Level Environmental Evaluation Tool (FLEET). FLEET can assess environmental impact of commercial aviation in the U.S., particularly ﬂeet-level CO 2 emissions, with considerations of advanced concept of aircraft, airline operations, and eco-friendly policies for the U.S. com- mercial aviation industries 4 12 . The backbone of FLEET is a resource allocation problem that mimics the behavior of airlines assigning their ﬂeet of aircraft on each route in their networks. Using a series of modules that represent variousarXiv:2210.11302v1 physics.soc-ph 16 Sep 2022 2 aspects of the commercial aviation system connected by feedback loops, FLEET allows airline ticket fares, passenger demand, airline ﬂeet size and airline ﬂeet composition to evolve over time. By including routes and operations that reﬂect most of the U.S. touching airline operations (i.e., routes that have at least one airport in the U.S.), the results from FLEET provide a prediction of the CO 2emissions trends from U.S. commercial aviation. Comparing the carbon emission trends from the simulation results with the IATA emission reduction goals, revealed that for the scenarios studies here that emphasize potential future economic growth and potential future technology development the predicted CO 2emissions do not quite reach the levels speciﬁed by the IATA goals. II. F UTURE SCENARIO DESCRIPTION To generate the potential future commercial aviation sce- narios, the ASCENT Aircraft Technology Modeling and As- sessment project team conducted two phases of workshops that gathered feedback from several industry, government and academic participants to select scenario descriptors, range of values for those descriptors and the importance of those de- scriptors. This effort led to developing scenarios by combining different levels of aircraft technology development, economic growth, and energy price, as Fig. 2 presents. Other possible scenario combinations not represented in Fig. 2 were deemed impractical by workshop participants. The Aircraft Technology levels describe the predicted per- formance, particularly fuel consumption, of future aircraft and engine combinations as well as the Entry Into Service (EIS) dates for these future aircraft. A High level indicates future aircraft with very good performance becoming available to the airline soon. Nominal aircraft technology reﬂects performance levels and EIS dates that
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Robust Transmission Network Expansion Planning Problem Considering Storage Units Alvaro Garc ıa-Cerezo Department of Electrical Engineering Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha Ciudad Real, Spain Alvaro.Garcia29 alu.uclm.esLuis Baringo Department of Electrical Engineering Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha Ciudad Real, Spain Luis.Baringo uclm.esRaquel Garc ıa-Bertrand Department of Electrical Engineering Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha Ciudad Real, Spain Raquel.Garcia uclm.es Abstract This paper addresses the transmission network expansion planning problem considering storage units under uncertain demand and generation capacity. A two-stage adaptive robust optimization framework is adopted whereby short- and long-term uncertainties are accounted for. This work differs from previously reported solutions in an important aspect, namely, we include binary recourse variables to avoid the simultaneous charging and discharging of storage units once uncertainty is revealed. Two-stage robust optimization with discrete recourse problems is a challenging task, so we propose using a nested column-and-constraint generation algorithm to solve the resulting problem. This algorithm guarantees convergence to the global optimum in a ﬁnite number of iterations. The performance of the proposed algorithm is illustrated using the Garver s test system. Index Terms Storage units, transmission network expansion planning, two-stage robust optimization, uncertainty. I. I NTRODUCTION The Transmission Network Expansion Planning (TNEP) problem identiﬁes the optimal reinforcements to be made in the transmission network of a power system. This problem is generally solved by a central entity, such as the system operator, that determines the transmission network investment decisions that are optimal for the power system as a whole, e.g., those investment decisions that minimize investment and operating costs. Since the pioneering work by Garver 1 , the relevance of the TNEP problem has motivated the development of many models in the technical literature. Over the last decade, the integration of renewable energy resources in power systems has given rise to the development of TNEP models that consider an uncertain environment in the decision-making process 2 . In this regard, two frame- works have been used to deal with this type of problem. Firstly, stochastic programming 3 , which characterizes the uncertainty using a discrete set of realizations or scenarios. This uncertainty framework is adequate if the probabilistic distribution of uncertain parameters is known; however, this task is not trivial. On the other hand, the number of scenarios This work has been partially funded by the Ministry of Science, In- novation, and Universities of Spain under Projects RTI2018-096108-A-I00 and RTI2018-098703-B-I00 (FEDER, UE), the Ministry of Education and Professional Training of Spain under Grant 998142, and the Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha under Grant BI2018.needed to obtain an accurate representation of the uncer- tainty is generally very large, which may result in tractability issues. Secondly, robust optimization 4 , which overcomes tractability issues associated with stochastic programming, but in contrast, solutions might be too conservative. Nevertheless, computational tractability is more restrictive. Moreover, one of the aims of the TNEP problem is guaranteeing the supply of demands in all situations so that a conservative solution is not a drawback in this type of problems. Thus the robust framework is preferred by scientist and researchers to deal with this type of problems. We also advocate and use a robust framework. In particular, we propose a two-stage adaptive robust optimization approach. There are many references in the technical literature about the TNEP problem considering a robust optimization frame- work, such as, 5 , 6 . However, none of them consider storage units, and we consider that this is a signiﬁcant as- pect, especially since penetration of renewable units in power systems is expected to signiﬁcantly increase in the next years. Thus, it is relevant to consider the impact of including storage units to store the renewable energy production during low- demand periods to be of use when is needed. The TNEP problem considering storage units under a robust framework is analyzed in 7 9 . Prevention of the simulta- neous charge and discharge of storage units is modeled in 7 through ﬁrst-stage binary variables. However, this assumption is unrealistic because the proper way to deal with these vari- ables must be once uncertainty is revealed during the recourse problem, i.e., considering them as second-stage variables. In contrast, 8 and 9 do not include binary variables to deal with the issue of simultaneous charging and discharging of storage units. They basically assume that this is not relevant or signiﬁcant. As shown in 10 , if the storage charging price at any bus with storage units is higher than or equal to the locational marginal price, simultaneous charging and discharging is likely to occur. For this reason, in systems with high penetration of renewable generating units where there are periods with very low or null marginal prices, it is necessary to prevent this undesirable situation. The consideration of binary variables in the lower-level problem prevents the use of the traditional column-and- constraint generation algorithm to solve the two-stage adaptive 978-1-7281-1156-8 19 31.00 2019 IEEEarXiv:1907.04775v1 math.OC 10 Jul 2019 robust optimization problem, because the two lowermost opti- mization levels cannot be recast as an equivalent single-level optimization problem. We propose solving the resulting model using the nested column-and-constraint generation algorithm described in 11 , which to our knowledge is the only exact solution procedure to date for this kind of problems. In summary, the main contribution of this paper is to propose an adaptive robust optimization approach with integer recourse variables for the TNEP problem, which avoids the simultaneous charging and discharging of storage units and makes the problem tractable even for medium-large size sys- tems. In addition, we also consider the impact of both short- and long-term uncertainties in the decision-making process. Short-term uncertainties in demand and renewable production are considered through a set of representative days, while long-term uncertainties in demand growth and capacity of generating units are represented using conﬁdence bounds. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II provides the formulation of the problem. Section III explains the solution procedure. Results from a case study are reported in Section IV. Finally, Section V concludes the paper with some relevant
__label__energy	An Ontological Metamodel for Cyber-Physical System Safety, Security, and Resilience Coengineering Georgios Bakirtzis Tim Sherburne Stephen Adams Barry M. Horowitz Peter A. Beling Cody H. Fleming Abstract System complexity has become ubiquitous in the design, assessment, and implementation of practical and useful cyber-physical systems. This increased complexity is impacting the management of models necessary for designing cyber-physicalsystemsthatareabletotakeintoaccountanumberof -ilities ,suchthattheyaresafeandsecureand ultimatelyresilienttodisruptionofservice.Weproposeanontologicalmetamodelforsystemdesignthataugmentsan alreadyexistingindustrymetamodeltocapturetherelationshipsbetweenvariousmodelelementsandsafety,security, and resilient considerations. Employing this metamodel leads to more cohesive and structured modeling eﬀorts with anoverallincreaseinscalability,usability,anduniﬁcationofalreadyexistingmodels.Inturn,thisleadstoamission- oriented perspective in designing security defenses and resilience mechanisms to combat undesirable behaviors. We illustratethismetamodelinanopen-sourceGraphQLimplementation,whichcaninterfacewithanumberofmodeling languages. We support our proposed metamodel with a detailed demonstration using an oil and gas pipeline model. 1 Introduction Cyber-physicalsystems(CPS)integratediversesoftware,ﬁrmware,andhardwaretocontroltheoperationofthephys- icalcomponentsofthesystembasedonanalysisofsensordata.Theselargelydistributedsystemshavealreadysparked innovationinanumberofsectors,suchasagriculture,powerdistribution,searchandrescue,andweaponry.Intheface of rapid innovation, it is important to understand and address the new challenges that arise from the deployment of CPS in environments where they are subject to cyber attacks. In particular, a characteristic of CPS is that when they fail, either because of an intrinsic fault or a security violation, they can transition to a hazardous state and, therefore, can cause accidents or otherwise unacceptable losses. In the domain of CPS, therefore, cybersecurity and safety are intertwined 49 . However, safety and security are often viewed disjointly in a way that considers security mitigations withoutregardtosafetylosses 6 .Theclassicalapproachtosecurityinvolvesveriﬁcationofcomponentsandthecon- struction of security barriers. The most eﬀective approaches to safety, by contrast, center on modeling losses in terms of control actions with respect to states that may reﬂect the condition of many components 39 . We aim to combine elements from the security and safety parardims to develop models to support the design of resilience solutions that can mitigate against unacceptable losses. Resilience is a proactive notion where in response to anomalies the system has a way to maintain operation, even in some degraded form 30 . The application of resilience concepts to safety and security design has the potential to transform our safety considerations and security defenses from a prescriptive, perimeter-based approach to one that uses adaptable and dynamic design patterns that take into account the intended functionsofthesystem.Suchatransformationcanbeachievedonlyifweareabletounifysafety,security,andresilience models. G.Bakirtzis,T.Sherburne,S.Adams,B.M.Horowitz,P.A.Beling,andC.H.FlemingarewiththeUniversityofVirginia.Correspondingauthor: bakirtzis virginia.edu 1arXiv:2006.05304v1 cs.SE 9 Jun 2020 The intrinsic complexity of CPS creates diﬃculties regarding how to best account for and model the intertwined natureofsafety,security,andresilience 36 .Modelingsafetyrequiresthinkingintermsofmisbehaviors,unacceptable losses,andhazardousstates.Modelingsecurityrequiresthinkingintermsofconﬁdentiality,integrity,andavailability. Modeling resilience requires thinking in terms of redundant architectures, recovery from a death state, and restricting the expected service of the system to disallow possible violations. Safety, security, and resilience have signiﬁcant overlapinCPSapplications.Forexample,bothasecurityviolationandasafetyrelatedcomponentfailurecouldcause an unsafe operator control action, resulting in a system response that reduces the dependability of the overall system. While this example of CPS behavior clearly shows that security and safety are coupled, the corresponding model representationsareoftendecoupledanddisparate.Tocombatthisdisjointtreatmentofsafety,security,andresilience, modeling eﬀorts must be structured in terms that not only address all three qualities but also are able to relate their results to each other. Structured modeling eﬀorts are often captured in a metamodel, which deﬁnes the typesandrelationships of infor- mationallowedinamodelofasystem.Diﬀerentmetamodelsapplytodiﬀerentapplications,forexample,ametamodel for geologic maps is not going to be the same as the metamodel for a software application. A strict metamodel would enforcethetypesandrelationshipsbutoftenmetamodelsareusedtoprovideastructuredguidanceformodelcreation. If automated, such a metamodel can be used to assist systems designers the same way that a sophisticated text editor doesforprogrammers.Inpractice,thiscapabilityisstilllackinginmodelingtools,predominantlybecausemetamodels arenotdevelopedforaparticularapplicationand,therefore,cannotenforcestrictrulestousersthathaveadiversesetof metamodelrequirements.Theontologicalstudyofmetamodelsaugmentsthemwithareﬁnementoftypes.Ontologies deﬁne what entities might exist in a particular domain application, how they might be grouped in categories, and how they relate but also can be decomposed within a hierarchy of types. The metamodel, then, is a representation of this ontology, often represented in a set of graphs. Ontologiesandmetamodelscanbeparticularlyusefulinthedesignofsafety-criticalCPS.Foranydesignsolution, the multitude of diverse but equally important system representations requires management of their corresponding models and relationships among them. This is challenging when attempting to manage some of the most concerning systemqualityattributes,suchassafetyandsecurity,asearlyaspossibleinthesystemslifecycle.Usageofmodelsfor thispurposecanbeapproachedinanumberofwaystotransitionfromassuringsafety,security,andresiliencebytrial and error to addressing them early through the use of models. While other -ilities 59 , for example dependability, survivability,andreliabilityhavebeenaddressedthroughmodels,safety,securityandresiliencehavenotbeenaddressed asoneproblem.However,inCPSthesethreequalitiesareperhapsthemostimportantfortheeventualdeploymentand use of these systems. Toachievethistransitionitrequiresustolearn(butavoidrepeating)fromhighlyresilientsystemsbuiltovertime, such as those developed with a ﬂy ﬁx ﬂy approach in the United States Federal Aviation Administration s air traﬃc controlsystem.Inthatcase,thesystemmodiﬁesaircraftﬂightrulesdependingonpilotvisibilitythroughuseofinstru- ment ﬂight rules and visual ﬂight rules, thereby, as necessary, reducing airport capacity while increasing safety. But this raises the question about how should systems engineers model -ilities of the system, which are interconnected andcannotbeexaminedinisolation,beforehavingexperiencedthemduringdeployment?Asaspeciﬁcexample,how would we model the interconnection of a safety incident that was initiated by a security violation in the case of CPS? And further, how would one design resilience and relate such resilience solutions to losses and their prevention to assure the proper operation of complex CPS systems during deployment? Solutions to parts of these questions have been proposed in each individual ﬁeld of safety, security, and resilience but without recognizing the problems that arise when these metrics interact with each other. For example, in the ﬁeld ofsafety,Levesonhasdevelopedsystems-theoreticaccidentmodelandprocess(STAMP) 38 ,whichexaminessafety incidents in terms of hierarchical control and unacceptable losses. In the intersection of security and resilience there is System Aware 32, 33 and its evolution Mission Aware 13, 14 , which see mitigation in terms of resilient modes 2 inadditiontotraditionalsecuritydefenses.Finally,thegeneralﬁeldofmodel-basedsystemsengineering(MBSE)has producedbothmethodsandtoolsinassessingthesafetyandsecuritypostureofsystemdesignsandistheparadigmin whichthemajorityofsystemmodelsmustconformto.Anexampleofafundamentalsystemsengineeringmetamodel is the model openly published by Vitech Corporation in support of the company s modeling software 53 . Oneunifyingansweristocreatepragmaticontologiesbasedontheabovecapabilitiesdevelopedwithineachindi- vidualﬁeld,whichwillallowforaholisticexaminationofthosequalitiesinrelationtothesystemmodel.Crucially,in thispaperweextendanalreadyexistingandoftenusedsystemsengineeringmetamodeltoaddresssafety,security,and resilience. For modeling purposes, this ontology is often codiﬁed in metamodels. Previous works study the theory of ontologiesextensivelyforthepurposeofunderstandingthematameta-metalevel 35,44,46,47 .However,thereisa gapincreatingdomainspeciﬁcontologiesandmetamodels;especiallyforthemodelingofCPS.Creatinganontology intheﬁeldofCPSshouldtakeintoaccountboththesystemanditsassociated -ilities withaparticularfocusonsafety, security,andresilience.Assuranceofthesethree -ilities combatsundesirablebehaviorsduringdeploymentbyfocus- ing the design eﬀort both on the functional and non-functional requirements of the system under design. Therefore, a concreteimplementationofanontologicalmetamodelisonewayforwardinmulti-paradigmmodelingforCPS,which is a necessity to manage the intrinsic complexity of these systems 58 . For these reasons, we propose the use of an ontological metamodel that can be applied to the diﬀering modeling views necessary to design CPS. We assert that this metamodel supports the structuring of modeling eﬀorts. Addition- ally,thismetamodelcanhelpusersseeinteroperabilitybetweenvariousmodelsandassessmentmethodologies,which has the potential of documenting both formal and informal requirements in one model 23 and ultimately achieve model federation. There are signiﬁcant design risks if we permit reliability, safety, and security engineers to work in isolation when designing highly automated CPS. Instead, such attributes must be examined together throughout life- cycle such that appropriate tradeoﬀs and design decisions can also be made throughout the
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	arXiv:2504.20529v1 eess.SY 29 Apr 2025Safe Bottom-Up Flexibility Provision from Distributed Energy Resources Costas Mylonasa, c, Emmanouel Varvarigosa, Georgios Tsaousogloub aDepartment of Electrical and Computer Engineering, National Technical University of Athens, Athens, Greece bDepartment of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark cEnergy Digitalization Group, UBITECH, Athens, Greece Abstract Modern renewables-based power systems need to tap on the flexibility of Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) connected to distribution networks. It is important, however, that DER owners users remain in control of their assets, de- cisions, and objectives. At the same time, the dynamic landscape of DER-penetrated distribution networks calls for agile, data- driven flexibility management frameworks. In the face of these developments, the Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) paradigm is gaining significant attention, as a distributed and data-driven decision-making policy. This paper addresses the need for bottom-up DER management decisions to account for the distribution network s safety-related constraints. While the related literature on safe MARL typically assumes that network characteristics are available and incorporated into the policy s safety layer, which implies active DSO engagement, this paper ensures that self-organized DER communities are enabled to provide distribution-network-safe flexibility services without relying on the aspirational and problematic requirement of bringing the DSO in the decision-making loop. Index Terms Multi-agent systems, safe deep reinforcement learning, flexibility, distributed energy resources, distribution network I. I NTRODUCTION A. Motivation Distributed flexibility is envisioned as a key driver towards reliable renewables-based power systems. Demand-response frameworks draw on the aggregated flexibility of multiple Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) to provide balanc- ing regulation services, while simultaneously respecting the DERs operational constraints and their owners preferences. The effective management of a large number of small-scale DERs, owned and operated by private prosumers, presents scalability and privacy challenges. Naturally, under high renewable energy penetration, the decisions over activating the finite DER flexibility must be made stochastically and adaptively. Namely, flexibility activa- tion decisions should account for future-related effects, such as the depletion of stored energy in batteries and the exhaustion of buildings indoor temperature tolerance, in par with the predicted need and value of further flexibility activation in subsequent hours. This constitutes the DER dispatch a problem ofsequential decision-making , where the solution concept takes the form of a decision-making policy, i.e. a method formaking a decision at each stage, once faced with the current system state. An additional requirement is that the DERs dispatch decisions need to be coordinated to ensure efficiency and satisfaction of coupled constraints; namely, preventing reverse- peak effects and violations of distribution network safety constraints. At the same time though, each entity (e.g. build- ing, storage facility, etc) should remain in control of its own assets and entitled to pursue its own preferences and objectives, which challenges traditional top-down operational frameworks. While DER owners are not inherently responsible for voltage control, future regulatory frameworks and emerging ancillary service markets may reward prosumers for grid- friendly behavior 1 . Moreover, ensuring that DER flexibility provision (to the wholesale market) does not create operational issues such as voltage violations or reverse flows in the underlying low-voltage network, adds further motivation for localized voltage-aware decision-making, even without direct DSO coordination. Thereupon, bottom-up, distributed coordination schemes are motivated, to achieve coordinated outcomes without requiring that DER owners lose control over their assets to a central entity, e.g., an Aggregator or a Distribution System Operator (DSO). In summary of the above, in this paper we are dealing with the need to design a safe, jointly efficient, and bottom-up sequential-decision-making policy, for a cluster of independent DERs connected to a common power distribution network. B. Related Work The need for distributed decisions that respect distribution network constraints, points to studies proposing distributed algorithms for solving the AC optimal power flow (OPF) problem. A comprehensive review of relevant methodologies is presented in 2 . Although 2 focuses on deterministic instances of the OPF, those have been extended to sequential decision-making frameworks: A typical approach to designing a policy follows the so-called predict-then-optimize proce- dure, where some forecasting model is used to produce (prob- abilistic or point-) forecasts of the uncertainties, which is then fed into a (stochastic or deterministic) optimization problem, with the process repeating in a rolling-horizon fashion (refer e.g. to 3 and references therein). As the landscape of distribution systems is rapidly evolving, the above model-based approaches require repeated efforts in model reconfiguration and staying up to date. This, along with the difficulty to design nuanced models for every individual use case, has motivated a major pivot towards self-adapting data-driven approaches, the predominant representative of which being Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL). The authors of 4 propose a MARL approach for coor- dinating the operation of multiple buildings in a grid-aware manner. The proposed approach enables each building to in- dependently learn its optimal control policy while considering the overall system state. In 5 , a scalable MARL approach for distributed control of residential energy flexibility is presented. The authors highlight the ability of the proposed approach to handle large-scale problems and its robustness to changes in the environment. Authors of 6 present a MARL approach for coordinated energy trading and flexibility services provision in local electricity markets. These studies have demonstrated the potential of MARL to coordinate the operation of multiple agents in a manner that optimizes energy trading, reduces total energy cost, and improves the reliability of the power grid. However, a common limitation of these approaches is the potential for constraint violations. Acknowledging the need to ensure constraint satisfaction, inherent in safety-critical applications, recent AI literature has made significant strides towards ensuring safety within MARL. Notable examples include the shielding technique of 7 , the incorporation of safety directly into the policy search, such as 8 and 9 and safe MARL algorithms (cf 10 ) for continuous action spaces, using a safety layer. Inspired by these techniques, researchers have recently applied safe data-driven methods to power systems. Namely, 11 proposes a safe reinforcement learning approach for secure energy management of multi-energy microgrids, while 12 presents a
__label__energy	arXiv:2207.02274v3 eess.SY 26 Nov 2022This work has been accepted for publication at the IISE Trans actions STOCHOS: Stochastic Opportunistic Maintenance Scheduling For Oﬀshore Wind Farms Petros Papadopoulos, David W. Coit , Ahmed Aziz Ezzat Department of Industrial Systems Engineering, Rutgers Univer sity Abstract Despite the promising outlook, the numerous economic and environm ental beneﬁts of oﬀshore wind energy are still compromised by its high operations a nd maintenance (O M) expenditures. On one hand, oﬀshore-speciﬁcchallengessu ch as site remoteness, harsh weather, transportation requirements, and production lo sses, signiﬁcantly inﬂate the O M costs relative to land-based wind farms. On the other hand , the uncertainties in weather conditions, asset degradation, and electricity prices lar gely constrain the farm operator s ability to identify the time windows at which maintenan ce is possible, let alone optimal. In response, we propose STOCHOS, short for the stochastic holistic opportunistic s cheduler a maintenance scheduling approach tailored to address t he uniquechallengesanduncertaintiesinoﬀshorewindfarms. Givenpro babilisticforecasts of key environmental and operational parameters, STOCHOS opt imally schedules the oﬀshore maintenance tasks by harnessing the opportunities that arise due to favorable weather conditions, on-site maintenance resources, and maximal operating revenues. STOCHOS is formulated as a two-stage stochastic mixed integer linea r program, which we solve using a scenario-based rolling horizon algorithm that aligns wit h the industrial practice. Tested on real-worlddata from the U.S. North Atlantic wh ere several oﬀshore wind farms are in-development, STOCHOS demonstrates considera ble improvements relative to prevalent maintenance benchmarks, across various O M metrics, including total cost, downtime, resource utilization, and maintenance inter ruptions. 1 Introduction Oﬀshore wind (OSW) is set to play a pivotal role in the global cl imate change mitigation eﬀorts. As a clean source of energy, it has a signiﬁcantly smal ler environmental footprint than fossil fuels, while it enables access to stronger and st eadier winds than those in-land, resulting in a higher and more reliable generation of electr icity. Several countries have set multi-year targets for the adoption or the expansion of thei r OSW portfolios, with recent reports projecting a growth in its global capacity of at leas t 15 times by 2040 (IEA, 2019). Despite the promising outlook, OSW still faces substantial technical challenges pertain- ing to the high expenditures associated with operating and m aintaining a ﬂeet of OSW turbines. Aside from the high upfront capital costs which a re largely due to the foun- dation construction and underwater cabling a substantial portion of the total life cycle cost of OSW farms is attributed to operations and maintenanc e (O M) activities. Re- cent estimates suggest that O M activities performed throu ghout an OSW farm s lifetime contribute by more than 30 to the total life cycle costs (Ste hly and Beiter, 2020). 1.1 The need for opportunistic maintenance: The high O M costs in OSW farms are driven by several unique ch allenges, including: (C1)OSW farm accessibility: The ability of the maintenance crew to safely access the OSW farmisfrequentlyprohibitedbyharshmetocean conditions (e.g., highwindspeedsandwave heights) (Gilbert et al., 2021). Our analysis of the metocea n conditions in the designated OSWareas intheNY NJ Bight (whereseveral OSWprojects arec urrentlyin-development) suggests that an OSW turbine sited at that location can be ina ccessible for 56 of its operational time due to unsafe wind and or wave conditions ( Papadopoulos et al., 2022). (C2)Transportation and maintenance requirements: OSW turbines are installed at remote locations that are accessed via repair vessels or helicopte rs, typically chartered from private O M contractors. Crew and equipment transport alone contri butes 28-73 of the OSW O M costs (Carroll et al., 2017; Dalgic et al., 2015). Moreov er, the harsh weather condi- tions at OSW farms further accelerate asset degradation and failure rates (Carroll et al., 2016), which directly translate into frequent maintenance visits. Those high maintenance requirements largely inﬂate the maintenance setup costs re lative to onshore wind farms. (C3)Revenue losses: Modern OSW turbines have 2-3 times higher capacity than their land-based counterparts (Golparvar et al., 2021). A shutdo wnof such anultra-scale turbine results in large revenue losses, especially at times of stro ngwindsor favorable market prices. Those oﬀshore-speciﬁc challenges ( C1-C3) make the conventional maintenance schedul- ing approaches which may be well-suited for land-based ope rations sub-optimal, moti- vating the need for an opportunistic approach for OSW maintenance scheduling. The essence of opportunistic maintenance is to incentivize the grouping of maintenance tasks (that would have been otherwise scheduled independently) a t times of maintenance op- portunity, in order to reduce the number of maintenance vis its and aggregate them at times when it is most economical for the OSW farm operator (Re n et al., 2021). In light 2 ofC1-C3, those opportunities can be one of the following: ( i) access-based opportunities: grouping maintenance tasks at times of OSW farm access to lev erage the (often scattered) periods of provisional accessibility, hence minimizing ma intenance delays, interruptions, and downtime; ( ii) resource-based opportunities: grouping maintenance tas ks to leverage maintenance resources that are already on-site (e.g., vess els, equipment, crew) in order to share the setup cost among multiple turbines and maximize re source utilization; and ( iii) revenue-based opportunities: grouping maintenance tasks at times when production losses would be minimal (e.g., at times of anticipated low winds and or low market prices). However, our survey of the literature (see Table 1) reveals t hat the overwhelming majority of research in wind farm opportunistic maintenanc e solely focuses on resource- based opportunities, which are often referred to in the lite rature as economic dependen- cies (Shaﬁee et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2019; Ding and Tian, 2 012; Sarker and Faiz, 2016; Ma et al., 2022; Besnard and Bertling, 2010; Ko and Byon, 2017 ). A small fraction of those eﬀorts partially account for revenue losses by incenti vizing the grouping of main- tenance tasks at periods of low power production (Besnard et al., 2009; Yildirim et al., 2017; Song et al., 2018). A separate line of research focuses on
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	arXiv:2503.24104v2 eess.SY 23 Apr 2025Application of Battery Storage to Switching Predictive Con trol of Power Distribution Systems Including Road Heating Chiaki Kojima1, Yuya Muto2, Hikaru Akutsu1, Rinnosuke Shima1, and Yoshihiko Susuki3 Abstract In regions with heavy snowfall, the living envi- ronment is becoming a serious problem due to heavy snow accumulation. A road heating is an electrical device which promotes snow melting by burying a heating cable as a thermal source underground in such regions. When integrating the ro ad heating into power distribution systems, we need to optimiz e the ﬂow of electric power by appropriately integrating distrib uted power sources and conventional power distribution equipme nt. In this paper, we introduce a battery storage to the power dis tri- bution system including road heating, and extend the predic tive switching control of the systems due to the authors previou s study to the case where battery storage is installed. As a mai n result, we propose a predictive switching control that util izes photovoltaic (PV) power generation and surplus power store d in the battery storage effectively, and achieves the reduct ion of distribution loss, attenuation of voltage ﬂuctuation, and efﬁcient snow melting, simultaneously. We verify the effectiveness of the application of battery storage through numerical simulati on using actual time series data of weather conditions and acti ve power of the PV power generation and load. I. I NTRODUCTION In heavy snowfall regions, there has long been a serious problem of great inconvenience and danger to people s lives , for example falling on sidewalks, heavy workload due to snow removal, trafﬁc congestion and etc 1 2 . A road heating is one of the electrical devices which promotes snow melting by burying a thermal source underground, and raises the temperature of the ground surface 3 . However, the road heating consumes a large amount of electrical power when we integrate road heating into the power distribution system 4 5 . The ﬂow of electrical power should be op- timized by properly integrating distributed power sources , e.g. photovoltaic power generation (PV), and electric vehi cles (EVs) with conventional power distribution equipment for a n appropriate operation of power distribution systems. Against the problem in the above paragraph, the authors of this paper 6 have derived a mathematical model of the power distribution system including road heating, and of snow melting on the ground surface via thermal diffusion in the underground based on the nonlinear ordinary differenti al This work was supported by Azbil Yamatake General Foundati on and JSPS KAKENHI Grant Numbers 20K04552, 23K03910. 1Chiaki Kojima, Hikaru Akutsu, and Rinnosuke Shima are with D e- partment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Facult y of Engineering, Toyama Prefectural University, 5180, Kurokawa, Imizu, Toy ama, 939-0398, Japanchiaki pu-toyama.ac.jp 2Yuya Muto is with Department of Electrical and Computer Engi neering, Graduate School of Engineering, Toyama Prefectural Univer sity, 5180, Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama, 939-0398, Japan 3Department of Electrical Engineering, Graduate School of E ngineering, Kyoto-University, Kyoto-Daigaku-Katsura, Nishikyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8510, Japanequation (ODE) model 7 8 . Based on this model, the authors proposed a switching predictive control of the powe r distribution system including road heating 9 . The propos ed control of 9 achieves reduction of power distribution los ses, attenuation of voltage ﬂuctuation, and efﬁcient snow melti ng, simultaneously. However, the supply of power electricity from the PV power generation equipment is limited to the distribution system only. There is a potential for improve- ment from a view point of power ﬂow optimization. In 10 , a 2-dimensional ﬂat ground surface is considered as the target of snow melting, and snow melting is occured by heat generation from thermal pipes. This study is different from the framework of an electrical heating cable as part of an electric power distribution system as considered in this paper. In this paper, we extend the results of the previous study 9 in the following two points from the observations given in the above paragraph, . A battery storage is introduced to the considered power distribution system to make effective use of surplus power generated by the PV power generation in the past. We introduce a switching to the PV power generation equipment for a more efﬁcient operation of the power distribution system which does not depend on transmis- sion from the grid. Based on the above extension, we give a design of predictive switching control of the distribution system including the switching of the PV power generation equipment and battery storage as a main result. Note that the authors of this paper have reported preliminary result in the reference 11 toward the objective explained at the beginning of this paragraph. The results of this paper provide a mathematical ly more accurate description of the mathematical model of the considered power distribution system than the reference 1 1 . In addition, this paper provides an additional case on the weather conditions for the simulation veriﬁcation, and giv e comparisons with the result for the case without the battery storage in the authors previous study 9 . The outline of this paper is described as follows. In Sec- tion II, we introduce a mathematical model of the considered power distribution system including with switching of the P V power generation equipment and battery storage. As a main result, we give a switching predictive control for the syste m based on an evaluation function to simultaneously achieve r e- duction of distribution losses, attenuation of voltage imp act, and efﬁcient snow melting in Section III. Finally, we verify an effectiveness of the proposed switching predictive cont rol and the application of the battery storage via numerical simulation using actual data of weather conditions and acti ve power of PV and load in Section IV. II. M ODELING OF POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM In this section, we develop the distribution system includ- ing road heating considered in the previous studies due to th e authors 6 9 to a mathematical model for the case includin g switching of
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	1 Abstract In the evolving power system , where new renewable resources continually displace conventional generation , conventional hydropower resources can be an important asset that helps to maintain reliability and flexibility . Varying climatic patterns do affect the operational pattern of hydropower. This would potentially play a vital role in meeting and delivering energy and meeting climate policy needs. Hydropower is one of the oldest forms of renewable energy resources , however , its dependency on water availability and other constraints are not well represented in power system steady state and dynamic models. This leads to multiple gaps in operations planning especially due to high intermittent renewable generation . Operating constrai nts and lack of high -quality data often become a barrier to hydropower modeling which leads to inconsistencies in reliability and operational planning studies resulting in unintentional blackouts or unforeseen situations . This paper identifies some of the gaps in hydro -based generation representation in steady -state and dynamic models and provides recommendations for their mitigation. Index Terms dynamic model, hydro power , interdependences, steady -state, water head and water availability I. INTROD UCTION ontinuous increase s in penetration of renewables and retirement of traditional coal -fired and nuclear -based generators impose more burden s on the natural gas and hydro resources needed to provide regulation and load following. Hydropower provides opportunities of decarbonization through grid enhancement and grid resiliency . Development of pumped storage hydropower, run -of-river and coupling hydropower with storage helps the grid to become more resilient and better able to manage fluctuations in energy supply and demand. Hydropower generation involves understanding challenges posed by ecological conditions, soil and sediment behavior, stake holder considerations etc. However, when it comes to power system modeling understanding the challenges posed by dynamic modeling gaps, uncertainty quantification market policy considerations are not well understood. Advancements in modeling techniques, data availability, and computational resource s will enable more accurate representation and optimization of hydropower generation within power systems, ultimately supporting the transition towards sustainable and resilient energy systems 1 . Between 2010 and the first quarter of 2019, U.S. power compani es announced the retirement of more than 546 coal - fired power units, totaling about 102 GW of generating capacity. Plant owners intend to retire another 17 GW of coal - fired capacity by 2025, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) 2 . In the Western Interconnection , natural gas-based generation plays a major role; however, California also keeps downsizing its gas generation fleet. In 2018 , California saw three big plant retirements : Encina (854 MW), Mandalay (560 MW), and Etiwanda (640 MW). This continue s California s downward trend in natural gas power plant capacity. California s gas fleet peaked in 2013 with just over 47,000 MW of cap acity, but California has shed roughly 5,000 MW since then. In the next 10 years there will be many more natural gas and coal plants retired within the Western Interconnection , and therefore more burden s placed on hydro -based resources 3 . As the power system continue s to be flooded with intermittent resources , it becomes more important to accurately assess the role of hydro and its impact on the power grid 4 . While hydropower generation has been studied for decades, dependency of power generation on water availability and constraints in hydro operation are not well represented in power system models used in planning and operation of large -scale interconnection studies 5 . There are still mu ltiple modeling gaps that need to be addressed ; if not, they can lead to inaccurate reliability studies, and consequently to unintentional load shedding or even blackout s. These gaps are mainly a consequence of decoupling hydro conditions and hydro -based constraints with electrical models used in steady -state and dynamic studies 6 . In this paper we will discuss the following gaps which have been identified in close collaboration with the industry and the utilities : Water availability in steady -state an d dynamic models is not properly represented . Interdependences among hydro projects are not properly represented. Environmental constraints are not represented in models . Rough zones are not represented in the power system model so generation dispatch in s ystem studies might not be realistic. Many outdated dynamic models of hydropower generation turbines are still in use. The power system is not studied for various water availability , such as high - and low -water conditions , in combination with a large amount of renewable generation. To conduct more accurate planning and operation studies, and ensure the grid operates reliably, it is vital to model hydro power generation with more accura cy, particularly water availability. The intent is for steady -state and time -domain simulation of the system to match specific water conditions as closely as possible and avoid unrealistic expectations from hydro -based generation. This work addresses model ing gaps and provide s recommendations for mitigation of the same. This paper is structured as follows : in Section II we identify the modelling gaps in hydropower generation. Section III emphasize s the role of hydropower generation in supporting the power system with emphasize on Western Interconnection ; and finally, in Section IV we provide recommendations for their mitigation and in Section V we conclude the paper with major findings and future work. Gaps in R epresentation s of Hydro power Generation in Steady -State and Dynamic Models Bhaskar Mitra, Senior Member IEEE, Sohom Datta, Senior Member, IEEE, Slaven Kincic, Senior Member, IEEE , Nader Samaan, Senior Member, IEEE , Abhis hek Somani C 2 II. GAPS IN HYDROPOWER GENERATION REPRESENTATION IN POWER SYSTEM MODELS AND STUDIES While hydropower generation has been studied for decades, the dependency of power generation on water availability and constraints in hydro operation is not well illustrated in planning and operation models. In this section , we illustrate some of the gaps that need to be addressed. These gaps were identified through numerous discussions with industry partners and
__label__energy	Energy System Digitization in the Era of AI: A Three-Layered Approach towards Carbon Neutrality Le Xiea,1, , Tong Huangb, Xiangtian Zhenga, Yan Liuc, Mengdi Wangd,e, Vijay Vittalf, P. R. Kumara, Srinivas Shakkottaia, Yi Cuig aDepartment of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Texas A M University, College Station, TX, 77843, USA bDepartment of Electrical and Computer Engineering, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 92182, USA cComputer Science Department, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 90007, USA dDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Center for Statistics and Machine Learning, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, 08540, USA eDeepMind, Mountain View, CA, 94043, USA fSchool of Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 85281, USA gDepartment of Materials Science and Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA Abstract The transition towards carbon-neutral electricity is one of the biggest game changers in addressing climate change since it addresses the dual challenges of removing carbon emissions from the two largest sectors of emitters: electricity and transportation. The transition to a carbon-neutral electric grid poses signiﬁcant challenges to conventional paradigms of moderngridplanningandoperation. Muchofthechallengearisesfromthescaleofthedecisionmakingandtheuncertainty associated with the energy supply and demand. Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) could potentially have a transformative impact on accelerating the speed and scale of carbon-neutral transition, as many decision making processes in the power grid can be cast as classic, though challenging, machine learning tasks. We point out that to amplify AI s impact on carbon-neutral transition of the electric energy systems, the AI algorithms originally developed for other applications should be tailored in three layers of technology, markets, and policy. Keywords: Artiﬁcial intelligence, electric energy systems, carbon neutrality Introduction To grapple with climate change, many countries are striving to achieve carbon-neutrality of their electricity sectors. As an example, the U.S. aims for 100 electricity generation from zero-carbon resources by 2035. However, today s decarbonization rate in the U.S. electricity sector may not be able to realize such an aggressive agenda sector 1 . Speeding up the carbon-neutral transition of the electricity sector requires massive integration of renewable generation at an unprecedented rate. Such large-scale renewable integration poses signiﬁcant challenges to the operational paradigm that today s grid employs. Reliable operation depends on both oﬄine planning as well as real-time decision making, including monitoring, control, and protection. In the emerging electricity landscape with deep renewables, due to the temporally variable nature of renewable generation, the number of scenarios needing to be considered in the planning studies is extremely large, which creates signiﬁcant diﬃculties for grid planners. Moreover, impactful anomalies in a low-carbon grid, e.g., oscillations, and large voltage deviations, may appear more often than in the conventional grid. Consequently, there is a stringent need to monitor and correct these anomalies in a timely manner. Such anomaly monitoring and correction require closed-loop decision-making tools that can convert high-dimensional streaming data into reliable decisions, and apply the decisions to the physical infrastructure in a timely fashion. However, there is generally a lack of such tools for most such anomalous scenarios. The above operational challenges are likely to become a major bottleneck to accelerating the carbon-neutral transition of the electricity sector. These challenges may beneﬁt from Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) based solutions. In recent years, AI-based applications are transforming all aspects of human society and endeavor 2 . In many successful applications, AI algorithms make decisions based on data without requiring detailed models. This is a highly desirable feature for future power grid operation since accurate physical models of phenomena based on weather or consumer behavior are likely either unknown or complex. On the other hand, as will be seen in what follows, some grid operational needs can be translated into classic AI problems. However, this will require the translation of the potential of AI into solutions at full-scale that can empower the ambitious carbon-neutral transition in the electricity grid 3, 4 , under the additional requirements of safety, time sensitivity, and interpretability. Corresponding author lead contact: le.xie tamu.edu Preprint submitted to Elsevier November 10, 2022arXiv:2211.04584v1 cs.AI 2 Nov 2022 Policy TechnologyPower System Dataset Problemformulation Intrinsic low-dimension Structural singularity AIAlgorithmPower System Market design Optimizationacceleration AIAlgorithmPower System Equality Economic efficiency Insightsforpolicymaking AIAlgorithm MarketsFigure 1: A layered vision of energy system digitization While several survey papers 2, 5, 6 review the applications of AI in electric energy systems and point out the research directions of this ﬁeld from a technological viewpoint, how to unleash the power of AI in decarbonizing the electricity sector is a complex problem in a broader social-economic-technological space. This Perspective argues that general-purpose AI needs to be carefully tailored in three layers before it can be applied in the safety-critical grid infrastructure applications. These three layers include technology, markets, and policy, as summarized in Figure 1. The rest of this perspective is organized as follows. First, we brieﬂy introduce key decision-making mechanisms associated with the operation of modern power grids. Then we highlight the connection between grid operation and AI. Finally, we elaborate on the tri-layer tailoring of AI for the carbon-neutral transition of the electric grids. The Role of AI in Carbon-neutral Transition of Power Grid This section elaborates on AI s potential for addressing challenges in the carbon-neutral transition of the electricity energy systems. We provide a brief overview of power grid operation (see a detailed overview of power system basic functionalities in the review paper 6 ) and highlight the decision making processes (Figure 2). Then we present the connection between these decision-making processes and representative problems in the AI ﬁeld. Overview of Modern Power Grid Operation The stringent balance requirement between electricity supply and demand in the modern grid is accomplished by a two-stage strategy which consists of oﬄine planning and real-time operation1. Oﬄine planning includes generation and transmission planning and several forward ﬁnancial markets. Generation planning leverages reliability studies to decide when and how much additional generation capacity should be added over a planning horizon of several years 7 . The objective of transmission planning is to ensure that the transmission lines deliver electricity from the generators to the loads.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	A Comprehensive Review of Wind Energy in Malaysia: Past, Present and Future Research Trends Fuad Noman , Gamal Alkawsi, Dallatu Abbas, Ammar Alkahtani, Seih Kiong Tiong, Janaka Ekanyake Abstract Wind energy has gained a huge interest in the recent years in various countries due to the high demand of energy and the shortage of traditional electricity sources. This is because it is cost e ective and environmentally friendly source that could contribute signi cantly to the reduction of the ever- increasing carbon emissions. Wind energy is one of the fastest growing green technology worldwide with a total generation share of 564 GW as the end of 2018. In Malaysia, wind energy has been a topic of interest in both academia and green energy industry. In this paper, the current status of wind energy research in Malaysia is reviewed. Di erent contributing factors such as potentiality and assessments, wind speed and direction modelling, wind prediction and spatial mapping, and optimal sizing of wind farms are extensively discussed. This paper discusses the progress of all wind studies and presents conclusions and recommendations to improve wind research in Malaysia. Keywords: renewable sources, sizing optimization, Wind energy, wind farm design, wind mapping, wind potentiality, wind prediction. 1 Introduction The increased demand for energy across the globe has led to Malaysia recognizing the signi cance of renewable energy as a supplement to conventional sources in generating electricity. Malaysia has estab- lished several energy policies that made the country one of the leading in energy production in South East Asia. The rst National Energy Policy was coined in 1979 and 2011, the Renewable Energy Act was put into existence. The policy framework has the objectives to identify the energy needs properly, conserving resources and environment, promote sustainable development, and low carbon technology 1, 2 . Malaysia pledged to the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2009 (COP15) to decrease the carbon emis- sions by 40 3 and committed to reducing its Green House Gas emissions by 45 by 2030 with respect to the year 2005 4, 5 . The new Net Energy Metering (NEM) mechanism updated in 2019, proposes equal tari for buying and selling electricity for NEM members. This recent process is expected to engage more customers to adopt renewable technology for example wind turbines and solar panels; however, the current NEM covers only the energy generated from solar panels 6 . Currently, renewable energy in Malaysia are mainly comes from biomass, biogas, solar, wind, mini hydro 6 . Figure 1 summarizes the installed electricity supply capacity mix for the entire Malaysia (Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) as of December 2018 7 9 . Figure 1(a) shows the total installed non-renewable sources dominated by fossil fuels, gas (43 ) and coal (37 ) with hydro plants larger than 100 MW (19 ) and 1 of diesel generators. On the other hand, the renewable sources (grid-tied only), as shown in Figure 1(b), covers solar (67 ), biomass (11 ), biogas (10 ), LSS NEM (6 ), mini-hydro (5 ), and solid waste (1 ). The renewable capacity provides a total of 625 MW representing 2 of total energy capacity in Malaysia. However, Institute of Sustainable Energy, Universiti Tenaga National, Jalan Ikram-Uniten, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia (e-mail: fuad.noman uniten.edu.my) 1arXiv:2004.11538v1 eess.SY 24 Apr 2020 Malaysian green technology master plan (GTMP) targets to increase the capacity of renewable sources mix to 20 by 2025. 1 5 11 10 67 6 Solid Waste Mini Hydro Biomass Biogas Solar LSS NEM2018 (625MW)43 37 19 1 Gas Coal Hydro Diesel2018 (30,566MW) Figure 1: Installed energy capacity in Malaysia by plant type (end of 2018). (a) non-renewable sources. (b) renewable sources. LSS: large scale solar, NEM: net energy metering. Most of the wind power studies in Malaysia focus on the features and characteristics of wind speed. That is due to Malaysia faces challenges in wind energy production as Malaysia is located at 5 on the north side of the equator, also the sea and land air in uence the wind circulation system. It was observed that wind changing by area and month and does not blow uniformly 10 . As per the statistics, Malaysia is known to have low wind speeds in comparison to countries with high wind speeds such as Denmark and Netherland. However, several locations in Malaysia have good wind upon a particular time in the year, especially during monsoon seasons. Malaysia has two monsoons, the southwest monsoon (May- September) and northeast monsoon (November-March). The average of the wind speed is usually below 3 m s, which make it less potential for generating countinuous wind energy output, however, the maximum wind speed falls in the range 6-12 m s indicating the possibility to generate wind power at certain times only 11 . With this speed, there have been several attempts to install wind turbines across the country. A few installed wind turbines as pilot projects were found in the literature. The rst wind turbine of 150 kW was installed at Pulau Terumbu Layang-Layang (Sabah), and the ndings con rmed the success of the project 12 . In contrast, the turbines of 100 kW installed within a hybrid system at Perhentian Island were failed. The on-site observations noticed that the turbines did not rotate continuously 13 . Besides, an earlier pilot project was implemented in a shrimp farm in Setiu (Terengganu) with a wind turbine of 3.3 kW. The turbine was connected directly to water pump systems and the aeration on the site , which was estimated to cover almost 40 of the farm s energy consumption with energy cost of 0.98 RM kWh each year 14 . There are few review papers about wind energy in Malaysia that appeared in the literature. However, these reviews are not recent and most of them concentrate on renewable sources in general and do not discuss the literature in depth 15 21 . Among the mentioned papers, only a few reviews concentrate on wind energy. However, these reviews investigate speci c factors such as wind
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Abstract Frequency stability of power systems becomes more vulnerable with the increase of solar photovoltaic (PV). Energy storage provides an option to mitigate the impact of high PV penetration. Using the U.S. Eastern Interconnection (EI) and Texas Interconnection (ERCOT) power grid models, this paper investigates the capabilities of using energy storage to improve frequency response under high PV penetration. The study result helps to identify the potential and impact factors in utilizing energy storage to improve frequency response in high renewable penetration power grids. Index Terms Energy storage, frequency response, photovoltaic (PV), governor response, inertia response. I. INTRODUCTION Photovoltaic (PV) generation and wind power generation are increasing in power systems of many nations 1-5 . The retirement of conventional units and the increase of PV generation will deteriorate the frequency response capability of power grids. As PV inverters are typically operated at the Maximum Power Point, they usually can not generate extra power when the system frequency declines. To reserve PV headroom for frequency response, a trade-off should be made to balance the reliability benefit and the opportunity cost. Besides PV output reserve, energy storage (ES) is another option to improve the grid frequency response 6, 7 . With the decreasing price of energy storage systems, interconnection-level frequency control using power-electronics-interfaced energy storage has become economically feasible. Some literature has explored different control strategies for energy storage frequency control. For example, Ref. 8 applied droop control in energy storage and developed a new approach for optimizing the size and operation of energy storage to achieve the maximum profitability. Some studies found the response time of droop control is relatively long and it may result in large frequency deviations after major contingencies. To mitigate this drawback, Ref. 9 utilized the time derivative of frequency (ROCOF) to activate additional frequency control. Further, Ref. 10 combined inertia emulation with the conventional droop control in energy storage frequency regulation. To coordinate the charging of distributed energy storage from electrical vehicle batteries, Ref. 11 used an adaptive droop control for frequency regulation. To continuously search for optimal parameters, Ref. 12 developed an adaptive control strategy and a self-tuning algorithm for energy storage control to minimize frequency deviation and the rate of change of the frequency, while reducing the energy storage power flow. For improved robustness, fuzzy-based frequency control strategies were applied in Ref. 13 to coordinate distributed PV, energy Email: syou3 utk.edu. This manuscript is an open-source and intermediate version of the author s the original paper published here: https: ieeexplore.ieee.org document 8861993. S. You et al., Energy Storage for Frequency Control in High Photovoltaic Power Grids, IEEE EUROCON 2019 -18th storage and electrical vehicle batteries. A fuzzy logic controller was also applied in Ref. 14 targeting at automatic generation control (AGC) for multi-area systems. This paper studied using energy storage to improve frequency response of power grids with high PV penetration. Two U.S. interconnection grids were studied: the EI and the ERCOT systems. High-energy-density energy storage (HEES) systems and high-power-density energy storage (HPES) systems were distinguished in this study. Two control strategies: frequency droop and step response of energy storage systems for frequency response were evaluated. Additionally, sensitivity of frequency response to key parameters of the energy storage systems, including the converter current limit, the storage capacity limit, and the discharge time, were investigated using high PV dynamic models of the U.S. EI and ERCOT systems. II. EI SYSTEM FREQUENCY RESPONSE ENHANCEMENT USING ENERGY STORAGE The geographic coverage of the two interconnection grids in the U.S. is shown in Fig. 1. The EI high-PV models with various rates of PV penetration have been developed and used in various studies performed by the study team as documented in 15, 16 . PSS e is the simulation tool of this study. The penetration rates of PV and wind in the EI and ERCOT models used in this study are provided in Table 1. The validity of the base dynamic models without renewables have been tested by synchrophasor data of GridEye. Under different PV penetration rates, the EI system frequency responses after a 4.5 GW power loss contingency, as defined by the Resource Contingency Criteria (RCC), are shown in Fig. 2. It shows that the frequency response capability decreases as PV increases. Fig. 3 shows the energy storage control system structure diagram. Basic information of the EI system model and key control parameters are shown in Table 2. In this study, the energy storage devices are located near PV power plants and connected to the grid in an aggregated manner. As this scoping study focuses on future power grids, these default parameters are determined empirically. For example, the maximum power of energy storage devices is close to or slightly smaller than the RCC power value, in order to fully or partially compensate the generation loss in the largest contingency. Sensitivity studies on these parameters are included in this paper. International Conference on Smart Technologies, Novi Sad, Serbia, 2019, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109 EUROCON.2019.8861993. IEEE Shutang You Use Energy Storage for Primary Frequency Control in Power Grids Fig. 1. The two U.S. interconnection systems (EI-blue, ERCOT-green) 17 Table 1. PV and wind penetration in studied scenarios in the two U.S. interconnection grids Renewable Penetration Scenario PV Generation Penetration Rate ( ) Wind Generation Penetration Rate ( ) 20 5 15 40 25 15 60 45 15 80 65 15 Fig. 2. Frequency response changes with the EI renewable penetration Fig. 3. Energy storage frequency control model connectivity Table 2. The EI model information and key energy storage control parameters Parameter and setting Value Total load in EI 560 GW Bus number 70k RCC Contingency magnitude 4.5 GW Maximum power 3,100 MW Maximum energy 3,100 MW 10s Droop frequency control ratio 2.5 Time constant of the low-pass filter 𝑇! 0.5 s Step response activation frequency 59.85 Hz Time delay in step response 0.5 s Response contingency ratio α 0.85 A. Droop Control and Step Response with HEES The discharge time of HEES systems, such as chemical batteries, varies between
__label__energy	SUBMITTED TO JOURNAL FOR POSSIBLE PUBLICATION 1 Electrical Behavior Association Mining for Household Short-Term Energy Consumption Forecasting Heyang Yu, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Yuxi Sun, Yintao Liu, Guangchao Geng, Senior Member, IEEE , and Quanyuan Jiang, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Accurate household short-term energy consumption forecasting (STECF) is crucial for home energy management, but it is technically challenging, due to highly random behaviors of individual residential users. To improve the accuracy of STECF on a day-ahead scale, this paper proposes an novel STECF methodology that leverages association mining in elec- trical behaviors. First, a probabilistic association quantifying and discovering method is proposed to model the pairwise behaviors association and generate associated clusters. Then, a convolutional neural network-gated recurrent unit (CNN-GRU) based forecasting is provided to explore the temporal correlation and enhance accuracy. The testing results demonstrate that this methodology yields a significant enhancement in the STECF. Index Terms Association mining, electrical behavior, short- term energy consumption forecasting, spectral clustering. I. I NTRODUCTION ACCURATE household short-term energy consumption forecasting (STECF) plays a pivotal role in household energy management system (HEMS), managing the efficiency of power generation components, and energy storage systems 1 , which also contributes to the attainment of energy-saving and carbon emission reduction. However, the residential load is of small scale, meanwhile with the characteristics of diverse types and quantities of appliances, random user s behavior, and being greatly affected by weather, special activities, etc., which imposes challenges to individual residential STECF. The widespread implementation of smart meter infras- tructure has opened up opportunities for STECF to tackle the aforementioned challenges. Some researches focus on exploring data-driven methods to improve the accuracy of household STECF. Long and short-term memory network (LSTM) 1 3 and gated recurrent unit (GRU) 4 approach have been proposed to enhance the accruacy of household STECF. Nevertheless, fine-grained energy consumption data can be used for this work. Ref. 5 has revealed energy consumption patterns through frequent pattern mining using time series data from various electrical appliances. Ref. 6 proposes a conditional hidden semi-Markov model to describe the probabilistic nature of residential appliance demand and related load forecasting algorithms. However, they both neglect the relationship between different electrical appliances. In Ref. 7 , 8 , researchers have proposed a non-intrusive load mon- itoring (NILM) and graph spectral clustering-based method that utilize the correlations of appliances behaviors in terms H. Yu, Y . Sun, G. Geng and Q. Jiang are with the College of Electrical En- gineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China. (e-mail: yuheyang, sunyuxi, ggc, jqy zju.edu.cn). Y . Liu is with the Polytechnic Institute, Zhe- jiang University, Hangzhou 310015, China. (e-mail: 22160186 zju.edu.cn). Corresponding author: Guangchao Geng .of their state (ON OFF) durations. Ref. 9 proposes graph- based method to represent the behavior in load identification and energy management. Nevertheless, the aforementioned researches primarily focus on intra-day and ultra-short-term load prediction. These methodologies are not applicable for individual residential forecasting on the day-ahead scale. In light of the above discussion, to tackle multiple chal- lenges faced by household STECF, this paper proposes an day-head STECF method ensembling association in pairwise appliances and their temporal correlation. First, a probabilistic association quantifying and appliance aggregation method is proposed to model the pairwise appliances consumption association and generate associated clusters. Then, a convolu- tional neural network (CNN)-GRU based forecasting method is provided to explore the temporal correlation and enhance accuracy. The results show that this method achieves an improvement in the performance on the day-head scale. Con- tributions of this work include: (i) A probabilisitc quantification method using improved graph-based representation is proposed, which fully utilizes the association between pairwise appliances and improves day- ahead predictability. (ii) Based on the appliance behavior related clusters, the proposed forecasting model can be lightweight simultaneously than overall forecasting without significantly losing prediction accuracy. II. B EHAVIOR ASSOCIATION MINING ASSISTED FORECASTING A. Probabilistic Quantification of Electrical Behavior Associ- ation In Ref. 9 , the behavior association can be expressed by the probability that an appliance is used after another appliance. In this work, we extend this idea that behavior association is characterized as the probability of an appliance being used before or after another appliance (both appliances are working) for a duration of Tewhich is the target time for the association. The behavior association matrix Qcan be used to describe the probability of pairwise behavior association among a group of appliances, which can be expressed as (1): Q: Qi,j: 1 i, j Na Qi,j Q(ai aj Te) Q(ai aj Ts) Nd i,j Nd Ne i,j Ns i,j Nd i,j Nd(1) where Qi,jis the behavior association probability that ap- pliance ajand appliance aiare on for a duration of Te. Q(ai aj Te)andQ(ai aj Ts)are respectively the probability of both aiandajbeing turned on during TeandTs.Tsis thearXiv:2402.09433v1 eess.SP 26 Jan 2024 SUBMITTED TO JOURNAL FOR POSSIBLE PUBLICATION 2 ModelOutput InputConcatenate Recent Load1 week Ahead 2 days Ahead 1 day Ahead Weather FeatureTemperature Dew Point Temp Humidity Calendar FeatureWeek -day Info.Work -day Info.Conv1DReluMaxPoolingRelu Conv1D Embedding Conv1DReluMaxPoolingRelu Conv1D EmbeddingGRUFully ConnectedPredicted Load CNN 1 CNN 2 Fig. 1. Model structure of household STECF time that can be used as a valid candidate. Narepresents the total number of appliances. Ne i,jandNs i,jare respectively the total number of both aiandajbeing turned on during Teand Tsin the time series data. Nd i,jandNdare number of days that both appliances have been used and total number of days. It should be noted that appliance event and consumption data can be obtained via NILM modules in smart meters 10 . The behavioral association is calculated using start-up time for its convenience where closing or consumption duration time can also be used. Additionally, the diagonal elements of Qare set to 0, eliminating interference during subsequent clustering. B. Spectral Clustering for Electrical Appliance Clustering The objective of extracting behavioral association is to amalgamate appliances demonstrating strong associative be- havior, thereby forming appliance clusters. The intention of STECF for these clusters on day-ahead scale is to jointly predict the appliances involved in a single electricity consump-
__label__energy	1 Estimating Primary Substation Boundaries and t he Value of Mapping Great Britain s Electrical Network Infrastructure Joseph Day, I. A. Grant Wilson, Daniel L. Donaldson , Edward Barbour, Bruno C árdenas, Christopher R. Jones, Andrew J. Urquhart, Seamus D. Garvey Highlights A valuable open dataset has been created, a map of GB s primary substation areas. Aggregation of domestic energy consumption provides insight into decarbonisation. Suggestions are made to improve the consistency of geospatial electrical data . Extending this approach to all networks with monitoring enables digital twins. This allows for evaluating decarbonisation strategies at high spatial resolution . Abstract Localised data aggregation in many countries including Great Britain (GB) is typically done to a geographical level with polygon boundaries that have a robust and trusted governance system in place . At a minimum this will mean there is confidence in a process to create a set of polygons that have unique identifiers coupled to geographical areas , and the ability to have these updated through a defined code of practice . Examples found across many countries are in the delivery of post , such as postcodes and zip codes , and of the definition of census areas and municipal boundaries . The confidence in these boundaries allows different data to be aggregated by third parties , which itself provides greater levels of data over comparable geographical areas to enhance wider analysis and decision making. As helpful as these polygons are for certain types of analys es, they are not however specifically defined for energy systems analysis. Here we combine publicly available datasets published from the six regional electricity Distribution Network Operators o f GB to produce a new geospatial dataset with 4436 unique polygons defining the a reas served by electrical primary substations . An example is also presented of the use of these polygons to link postcode level open government datasets on domestic energy con sumption (2015 -2020) from the Department of Energy Security and Net Zero (DESNZ) . This results in another dataset with energy statistics aggregated to the geographical areas served by each primary substation across Great Britain . The significant value of the data we generate is demonstrated by evaluating future heat pump (HP) demands, considering up to 71 adoption by 2050 . While preliminary, our estimates suggest that domestic HPs co uld increase annual demands by up to 51 on prim ary substations. However, there is significant variation in the increase, demonstrating that certain primary substations and regions should be prioritised for capacity expansion . Therefore, w e believe there is a compelling argument for count ries to set up processes to create and update polygons that have a meaningful relationship to energy systems. This would allow more accurate energy systems analysis to be performed, ultimately leading to an accelerated or potentially lower cost transition to a net -zero w orld. 2 Graphical Abstract List of Abbreviations COP Coefficient of performance DESNZ Department for energy security and net zero DFES Distribution future energy scenarios DNO Distribution network operator DOI Digital object identifier EPC Energy performance certificate EHV Extra high voltage ENWL Electricity northwest limited EV Electric vehicle GB Great Britain GWh Gigawatt hour HP Heat pump HV High voltage kWh Kilowatt hour 3 LAEP Local area energy planning LSOA Lower -level super output area LV Low voltage MPAN Meter point administration number MPRN Meter point reference number NGED National grid electricity distribution NPG Northern power grid OA Output area OFGEM Office for gas and electricity markets OGP Open geography portal ONS Office for national statistics OS Ordnance survey QGIS Quantum geographic information system RIIO Revenue incentives innovation outputs RUC Rural urban classification SPEN Scottish power energy networks SPF Seasonal performance factor SSEN Scottish and southern electricity networks UKPN United Kingdom power networks UPID Unique primary identifier UPRN Unique property reference number WMRESO West Midlands Regional Energy S ystem Operator WPD Western power distribution 4 1 Introduction 1.1 Intro duction to the decarbonisation challenge As the UK1 aims to transition to a decarbonise d energy system by 2050, it is widely accepted that data and digitalisation will play an essential role in achieving this goal across its wider energy systems 1- 3 . There is an expectation of the growing use of near live to day -ahead data to help influence and manage the demand on energy network s, which provide heat, gas and electricity . For example, through measures such as time -of-use tariffs to influence demand and provide flexibility through the smart charging of electric vehicles ( EVs) 4 . Additionally, geospatial data representing the locations of and areas served by pieces of energy infrastructure ( e.g., an ele ctricity substation) would be a n important part of the data landscape for grid management as it enable s more accurate spatial load forecasting 5 . There are also a range of helpful historical data that are created with a much larger window of analysis, e. g., annual gas and electricity consumption data , which enable s researchers, local authorities and other stakeholders to evidence decisions for their local areas to decarbonise 6, 7 . However, t hese statistics are typically aggregated to geographical levels which are independent of the energy infrastructure including postcodes and census areas. Therefore, the predominant aim of this work is to address this knowledge gap by presenting a methodology which aggregates publicly available domestic energy con sumption statistics to areas served by a common substation for the whole of GB. In doing so, this study demonstrates the value of substation areas as geographical units and their potential to aid in contrasting local decarbonisation options. A suggested f ramework for helping the formation of feasible , sub-regional pathways to decarbonisation is through Local Area Energy Planning (LAEP) in which a combination of organisations (including gas and electricity network operators, local government and other exper ts in energy) consider the energy system in a more holistic way and produce a set of options, scenarios, priorities and actions that can be
__label__energy	Energy-Aware Predictive Motion Planning for Autonomous Vehicles Using a Hybrid Zonotope Constraint Representation Joshua A. Robbins, Andrew F. Thompson, Sean Brennan, and Herschel C. Pangborn Abstract Uncrewed aerial systems have tightly coupled energy and motion dynamics which must be accounted for by onboard planning algorithms. This work proposes a strategy for coupled motion and energy planning using model predictive control (MPC). A reduced-order linear time-invariant model of coupled energy and motion dynamics is presented. Constrained zonotopes are used to represent state and input constraints, and hybrid zonotopes are used to represent non-convex con- straints tied to a map of the environment. The structures of these constraint representations are exploited within a mixed- integer quadratic program solver tailored to MPC motion planning problems. Results apply the proposed methodology to coupled motion and energy utilization planning problems for 1) a hybrid-electric vehicle that must restrict engine usage when flying over regions with noise restrictions, and 2) an electric package delivery drone that must track waysets with both position and battery state of charge requirements. By leveraging the structure-exploiting solver, the proposed mixed- integer MPC formulations can be implemented in real time. I. I NTRODUCTION There has been a rising interest in the potential of au- tonomous electric and hybrid-electric uncrewed aerial sys- tems (UAS) in the aviation industry. Applications include aerial package delivery vehicles 1 and air taxis or am- bulances for urban air mobility (UAM) 2 , 3 . Energy usage and environmental constraints, such as restrictions on aircraft noise, present significant technological challenges for these systems 3 . To address these challenges, autonomous planning algorithms must be able to account for energy utilization in addition to vehicle motion. A. Gaps in the Literature Existing work on energy-aware planning has focused on incorporating energy considerations into high-level path planning algorithms, often using graph-based approaches such as A or Dijkstra s algorithm 4 . Graph search algo- rithms are used to perform high-level, energy-aware planning for hybrid-electric UAS under energy and noise constraints in 5 7 , and they are applied to energy-constrained planning for package delivery drones in 8 , 9 . However, there are several key challenges when attempting to integrate high-level planners with lower-level path followers, such as discrepancies in model assumptions between the path planner and follower 10 . Joshua A. Robbins, Andrew F. Thompson, Sean Brennan, and Her- schel C. Pangborn are with the Department of Mechanical Engineer- ing, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802 USA (e-mail: jrobbins psu.edu, thompson psu.edu, sbrennan psu.edu, hcpangborn psu.edu ). This research was supported by Peraton.Intermediate-level motion planning algorithms are often used to bridge the gap between high-level planners and low- level controllers. The role of such algorithms is to locally plan system trajectories, typically using a reduced-order model of the system 11 . Introducing energy considerations into these intermediate-level planners has received compara- tively little attention in the literature despite the extensive literature on UAS motion planning when energy system dynamics are not considered 12 . Energy and motion dynamics have been incorporated into Model Predictive Control (MPC) formulations, which are often used for motion planning 13 . Energy dynamics were included in a hierarchical MPC controller with one spatial di- mension and convex state constraints in 14 , and a terminal battery state of charge constraint was used within an MPC path planner follower in 15 . In 16 , MPC is used for UAS motion planning and control. Here, battery state of charge is maximized while adhering to obstacle avoidance constraints that are imposed using potential functions, and the system dynamics are linearized about an equilibrium condition. The resulting energy-aware motion plans may be vulnerable to entrapment in suboptimal local minima given the nonlinear programming formulation and local linearization. Increasingly, MPC optimization problems for motion plan- ning are formulated as mixed-integer programs (MIPs) be- cause non-convex constraint sets (e.g., an obstacle map) can be exactly represented in MIPs and for mixed-integer convex programs convergence to a global optimum is guar- anteed 17 . MIPs are NP-hard 18 however, which inhibits the application of these methods in a real-time context. B. Contributions This paper presents an efficient method for energy-aware motion planning of uncrewed aerial systems. A mixed- integer set representation, the hybrid zonotope , is used to exactly represent a non-convex constraint set that defines obstacles and regions with location-specific noise restric- tions. A reduced-order, linear time-invariant model of the coupled UAS energy and motion dynamics is developed that is globally valid and conservative with respect to planned energy usage. Motion and energy states are coupled via a polytopic constraint set, and a low-complexity constrained zonotope representation of this set is presented. An MPC controller is formulated that plans system trajectories which adhere to specifications on both the motion and energy states. A mixed-integer quadratic program (MIQP) solver developed in our previous work 19 , 20 (previously applied for motion planning only and not energy management) isarXiv:2411.03189v2 eess.SY 15 Nov 2024 leveraged to efficiently solve these MPC optimization prob- lems by exploiting the structure of the hybrid zonotope and constrained zonotope set representations. Case studies show how noise-restricted areas and terminal energy constraints can be considered by the proposed controller and highlight the utility of jointly optimizing energy and motion plans. II. P RELIMINARIES A. Notation Vectors are denoted with boldface letters. Sets are de- noted with calligraphic letters. Vertex representation (V- rep) polytopes are denoted in terms of their vertices vias P v1,v2, ... . Empty brackets denote the absence of a quantity. Expressions using the symbol are expanded using all possible permuatations. For instance, a b c expands to the inequalities a b c , a b c , a b c , a b c .(1) B. Zonotopes, Constrained Zonotopes, and Hybrid Zono- topes As will be seen in Sec. III, constrained zonotopes and hybrid zonotopes are used to represent constraint sets in our MPC formulation. The definitions of these set representations are briefly reviewed here. A setZ Rnis a zonotope if Gc
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Optimization of Fossil Fuel Consumption under Grid Energy Supply by Wind Energy and Auxiliary Batteries Using Fossil Fuel for Energy Supply Yi Chena, aThe China-EU Institute for Clean and Renewable Energy, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China Abstract In this paper, a class of systems in which auxiliary batteries fed by fossil fuel generation and wind farms work together to supply power to the grid are modeled and strategies are solved to minimize the consumption of fossil fuels while still allowing the total energy to satisfy the energy demand of the grid. The wind resource is modeled using stochastic differential equations and the grid energy demand is also stochastically modeled using stochastic differential equations. The two stochastic models are well calibrated using wind resource data from historical wind farms and historical grid energy demand data. Finally, dynamic programming is used to solve this optimization problem. Keywords: Wind energy, Stochastic Differential Equation, Energy storage system, Optimal control. 1. INTRODUCTION The issue of energy has always been a huge problem for the survival of mankind. From the earliest period when mankind used biomass as the main source of energy, to the time when mankind could use electricity, the inno- vations have been tremendous 1 . However, the current level of technology still does not allow humans to consume energy at will. In addition, with This paragraph of the first footnote will contain the date on which you submitted your paper for review. Corresponding author Email address: chenyi hust.edu.cn (Yi Chen ) Preprint submitted to Elsevier October 18, 2023arXiv:2310.11414v1 math.OC 17 Oct 2023 the progress of time, in spite of the problem of the total amount of energy, the serious impact on the environment caused by the massive use of fossil fuels has also aroused the concern of mankind. Humans began to try to find a larger total amount of cleaner energy. Renewable energy sources have received a great deal of attention in recent years due to mankind s keen in- terest in cleaner, more extensive (and in some sense inexhaustible) energy sources. Among them, solar and wind energy are the most favored children of renewable energy 2 . Solar and wind energy are two of the most widely available sources of renewable energy and are the most accessible to mankind at the current state of the technology. For these two types of energy, there are already a large number of researchers working in their fields, such as solar thermal power generation and solar photovoltaic power generation using so- lar energy. Wind turbine research utilizing wind energy 3 . The use of both types of energy is clean and in some sense inexhaustible. However, due to the two energy sources have unstable factors in the utilization process, such as solar energy can not be directly used for power generation at night 4 , wind energy can not guarantee a stable power generation at any time 5 . There- fore, there is still a lot of work to be done by researchers to try to utilize new energy instead of conventional energy sources. There is a great deal of research on the uncertainty of wind energy, such as 6 7 8 9 . Modeling of uncertainty in wind energy has been done using neural networks for wind speed prediction 10 11 12 and stochastic differen- tial equations for wind speed assessment 13 14 15 . The energy demand of the grid has been studied in 16 17 18 The structure of this paper is modeled using stochastic differential equa- tions for wind resources and grid energy demand in 2, where a common calibration method is provided for stochastic differential equations by means of a large amount of historical data in 2.1. In 3, an optimization problem is created for this established stochastic model. A common method for solving this optimization problem is given in 3. Simulation results are given in 4. 2. PROBLEM MODELING FOR WIND ENERGY AND ENERGY DEMADN For a fixed area, the presence or absence of wind and the magnitude of wind speed are influenced by a large number of uncertainties in nature. With the current level of human technology, it is not possible to establish a complete mathematical model to give the size of the wind speed at any 2 time in a certain area, which has a great impact on the utilization of wind energy. For this reason, this paper will use stochastic differential equations to establish a stochastic model for the wind speed in a certain area, as shown in (1) vw t fθw(vw t)dt gθw(vw t)dBw(1) where vw tis the wind speed at time tin a certain area. fθwandgθwrepresent the drift and diffusion terms in the stochastic differential equation, respec- tively, and both functions will be fitted using a neural network through past wind resource data for the region. Bwis a 1-dimensional Brownian motion. For wind energy at moment tcan be expressed by (2) Pw t 1 2ρAw(vw t)3(2) where ρandAware the density of air and the area through which the wind passes at that wind speed, respectively. According to Itˆ o s chain rule ( 19 section4.4), the following equation holds E dPw t dt 3 2ρAw(vw t)2fθw(vw t) 3ρAwvw t gθw(vw t) 2(3) The amount of energy that can be obtained from wind energy over a period of time can be described by the following equation. Et0,T w ZT t0 Zt dt t 3 2ρAw(vw s)2fθw(vw s) 3ρAwvw s gθw(vw s) 2 ds! dt(4) where t0is the initial time for the observation of wind speed and Tis the termination time. Likewise, there is a large amount of uncertainty in the energy supplied by the grid to the population, since the electricity demand of the population is not a continuous constant in the time domain. Therefore, a stochastic model can be developed for the energy consumption demand of the residents using stochastic differential equations as well. Ed t µθd(Ed t)dt σθd(Ed t)dBd(5) where µθdandσθdrepresent the drift and diffusion terms in the stochastic differential
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	The impact of temporal hydrogen regulation on hydrogen exporters and their domestic energy transition Leon Schumm1,2,8, , Hazem Abdel-Khalek3,4, Tom Brown2, Falko Ueckerdt5, Michael Sterner1, Maximilian Parzen6, Davide Fioriti7 1Research Center on Energy Transmission and Storage (FENES), Faculty of Electrical and Information Technology, University of Applied Sciences (OTH) Regensburg, Seybothstr. 2, 93053 Regensburg, Germany 2Department of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, Institute of Energy Technology, Technische Universit at Berlin, Fakult at III, Einsteinufer 25 (TA 8), 10587 Berlin, Germany 3Fraunhofer Research Institution for Energy Infrastructures and Geothermal Systems IEG, Gulbener Straße 23, 03046 Cottbus, Germany 4Albert-Ludwigs Universit at Freiburg, Faculty of Environment and Natural Resources, Tennenbacher Str. 4, 79106 Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany 5Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Telegrafenberg, 14473 Potsdam, Germany 6University of Edinburgh, Institute for Energy Systems, EH9 3DW Edinburgh, United Kingdom 7University of Pisa, Department of Energy Systems, Territory and Construction Engineering, Largo Lucio Lazzarino, 56122 Pisa, Italy 8Lead contact Summary As global demand for green hydrogen rises, potential hydrogen exporters move into the spotlight. However, the large-scale installation of on-grid hydrogen electrolysis for export can have profound impacts on domestic energy prices and energy-related emissions. Our investigation explores the interplay of hydrogen exports, domestic energy transition and temporal hydrogen regulation, employing a sector-coupled energy model in Morocco. We find substantial co-benefits of domestic climate change mitigation and hydrogen exports, whereby exports can reduce domestic electricity prices while mitigation reduces hydrogen export prices. However, increasing hydrogen exports quickly in a system that is still dominated by fossil fuels can substantially raise domestic electricity prices, if green hydrogen production is not regulated. Surprisingly, temporal matching of hydrogen production lowers domestic electricity cost by up to 31 while the effect on exporters is minimal. This policy instrument can steer the welfare (re-)distribution between hydrogen exporting firms, hydrogen importers, and domestic electricity consumers and hereby increases acceptance among actors. Keywords: Energy Transition, Hydrogen regulation, Hydrogen export, Climate-neutral, Domestic prices, Hydrogen prices, Power-to-X Introduction The global energy environment is experiencing fundamental upheaval, driven by the need to reduce greenhouse gas emis- sions and transition to a low-carbon future. In this context, hy- drogen has emerged as a viable clean energy carrier capable of addressing the issues of decarbonizing numerous sectors such as industry, transport, heating and power generation. A grow- ing number of countries are investigating green hydrogen pro- duction and use as a crucial component of their strategy to cut greenhouse gas emissions and meet ambitious climate targets. Simultaneously, several countries are positioning themselves as potential exporters of hydrogen and Power-to-X products, discovering an opportunity to leverage their renewable energy resources and technological advances. These countries are ex- pected to play a substantial role in the global energy market by supplying clean hydrogen and therefore contributing to global decarbonization efforts. However, pursuing both (on-grid) hy- drogen exports and national energy transition raises questions Correspondence: leon1.schumm oth-regensburg.deon welfare redistribution, prices and co-benefits that require in-depth analysis, additionally shining a light on the role of temporal hydrogen regulation. Morocco serves as a blueprint for investigating these depen- dencies. Morocco, which has vast solar and wind resources1 3, has proposed ambitious renewable energy adoption objectives, displaying a commitment to lowering its own greenhouse gas emissions4. At the same time, the country is strategically po- sitioned to deploy its renewable energy potentials to export green hydrogen, opening the door to substantial economic op- portunities and local value chains5. Furthermore, the country is a net importer of energy6, and green hydrogen could help reduce its dependency on energy imports. The proximity to Europe, which is expected to be a major hydrogen importer, makes Morocco an attractive potential exporter. These conditions are the motivation of several studies7 14ex- amining the potential of hydrogen in Africa and synergies with European demand. A more detailed study of Morocco has been undertaken by Boulakhbar et al.15examining challenges in in- tegrating Renewable Energies, Khouya et al.16determining the Preprint submitted to Nature Communications May 24, 2024arXiv:2405.14717v1 physics.soc-ph 23 May 2024 Levelized Cost of Hydrogen based on concentrated solar power and wind farms, and Touili et al.2investigating the potential of hydrogen from solar energy. Hampp et al.17investigates various PtX products and their transportation to Europe, and Eichhammer et al.18highlights diverse opportunities and chal- lenges related to exporting hydrogen and Power-to-X products from Morocco. While several studies7,8,17have examined the potential of hydrogen as a low-carbon energy carrier and oth- ers have explored various countries climate targets and as- pirations15, a substantial research gap remains regarding the integrated investigation of both perspectives. Apart from hydrogen exports and domestic climate change mit- igation, temporal hydrogen regulation plays a decisive role in prices for domestic consumers and hydrogen exporters. Tem- poral hydrogen regulation defines the rules for green hydro- gen production when there is no direct connection between the electrolyser and green electricity production. Temporal matching in selected European countries is investigated in Zeyen et al.19, whereas Ruhnau et al.20points out benefits of relaxing simultaneity requirements of renewable electricity (RE) sup- ply and hydrogen generation. The effect of regulatory options on social welfare and carbon emissions is assessed in Brauer et al.21. The interplay of additionality criteria and time matching requirements is investigated in Giovanniello et al.22, highlight- ing how additionality drices the emissions impact of tempo- ral hydrogen regulation. While Zeyen et al.19contextualizes the role of temporal hydrogen regulation with decarboniza- tion scenarios of Germany and Netherlands, none of the men- tioned studies fully integrates domestic climate change miti- gation and temporal hydrogen regulation scenarios. Further- more, none of these studies looked into exports in depth. Numerous studies focus exclusively on either hydrogen ex- ports, domestic climate mitigation or temporal hydrogen reg- ulation, without discussing the complex relationship between these three dimensions. These studies miss interactions be- tween on-grid hydrogen electrolysis and the domestic electric- ity system, fail to uncover potential synergies and conflicts for both hydrogen exporters as well as domestic electricity con- sumers with respect to different temporal hydrogen regulation regimes. The novelty of our study is the development of a sector-coupled
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	C. Yang et al.: Framework of resilient transmission network r econfiguration considering cyber -attacks 8 Abstract Fast and reliable transmission network reconfiguration is critical in improving power grid resilience to cyber -attacks. If the network reconfiguration following cyber -attacks is imperfect, secondary incidents may delay or interrupt post -attack restoration of the power grid. This paper proposes a framework of resilient transmission network reconfiguration, taking into account the impacts of cyber -attacks in the network reconfiguration process. First, the mechanism of cyber -attack propagatio n is analyzed based on the characteristics of network reconfiguration. Second, systematic resilience indices are specially extracted in which the impact of cyber -attacks on network reconfiguration is quantified. These indices are defined in terms of the re storation characteristics of the transmission power system. Third, representative cyber -attack incidents motivate an optimization -based model of resilient transmission network reconfiguration, and an optimal reconstruction scheme is obtained. Finally, simu lation results based on the IEEE 39 -bus system verify the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed framework in enhancing power grid resilience to cyber -attacks. Index Terms Power system restoration, resilien t network reconfiguration, cyber -attack, propagation process, impact assessment I. Introduction ITH the development of smart grids, the modern power system has become a cyber -physical power system (CPPS). While sensing, computation and actuation in the grid dramatically enhance self -healing capabi lities, vulnerability to cyber -attack introduces new possibilities for malicious activity. This work is partiall y supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (72331009 , 72171206 , 52107092 ), Shenzhen Key Lab of Crowd Intelligence Empowered Low -Carbon Energy Network (No. ZDSYS20220606100601002), and the Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intellig ence and R obotics for Society (AIRS). (Corresponding author: Junhua Zhao and Gaoqi Liang.) C. Yang, and J. Zhao are with the School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518100, China (e-mail: yangchao cuhk.edu.cn ; zhaoj unhua cuhk.edu.cn ). G. Liang is with the School of Mechanical Engineering and Automation, Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518055, China (e-mail: gaoqi.liang outlook.com ) S. R. Weller is with the School of Engineering , University of Newc astle, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia (e -mail: steven.weller newcastle.edu.au). S. Li is with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, North China Electric Power University, Baoding 071003, China (e-mail: shaoyan.li ncepu.edu.cn ). Z. Dong is with th e School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, 639798, Singapore (e-mail: zydong ieee.org ). In recent years, blackouts of power systems caused by cyber -attack have occurred on a number of occasions. The most well-known attack is the 2015 Ukraine blackout 1 caused by synchronized and coordinated cyber -attacks, resulting in approximately 225,000 customers suffering from power outages for hours. The most recent blackout caused by cyber -attacks occurred in Venezuela 2 in 2019. This attack interrupted the power supply in eighteen states for several days, leading to enormous losses to the national economy and a great impact on people s lives, livelihoods and social stability. In the CPPS, attackers stea l the confidential operation data without permission and use security flaws to attack the control system or its resources. Common forms of cyber -attack in the literature include the denial -of-service attack, false data injection attack 3 , man -in-the-middle attack, repla y attack, cyber -topology attack , etc. The impacts of cyber -attacks are primarily reflected in the security and economics of the power system 4 . The resilient power system 5 , on the other hand, can effectively mitigate the impact s of cyber -attack incidents. Power system resilience refers to the capacity to forecast, absorb and recover from external, high -impact, low -probability disturba nces. Its main properties include resourcefulness, robustness, redundancy, and restorability 6 . The power system restoration 7 is therefore an important research topic. The restoration process of bulk power systems includes three main stages 8 : the black start stage, the transmission network reconfiguration stage and the load restoration stage. Transmission network re configuration 9 is the bridge between the black start stage and the load restoration stage. Its main task is to establish a power -supplied path for generators without self -starting capability and critical load s as soon as possible. Existing methods for path establishment are mostly based on graph theory, such as the shortest path algorithms 10 , 11 , which makes the final reconfigured network a tree graph. Moreover, the traditional strategy has an implicit assumption that the cyber system is intact and available during the restoration process. The traditional reconfiguration scheme is therefore idealistic. In reality, however, the cyber system may shut down due to loss of power supply, fault or damage to communication equipment after a blackout, and even cyber -attacks, which will further weaken the restoration capability of the power system 12 . During the restoration process, the CPPS is vuln erable to secondary incidents that may delay the restoration and even lead to secondary blackouts. Current research into network reconfiguration rarely considers secondary incidents, especially malicious cyber -attacks. Thus, this paper proposes a framework of resilient network reconfiguration considering cyber -attacks . The main contributions are as follows: 1) This paper combines cyber -attacks with transmission Framework of Resilient Transmission Network Reconfiguration Considering Cyber -Attacks Chao Yang, Member , IEEE , Gaoqi Liang, Member , IEEE , Steven R. Weller, Member , IEEE , Shaoyan Li, Member , IEEE , Junhua Zhao, Senior Member , IEEE , and Zhaoyang Dong, Fellow , IEEE W C. Yang et al.: Framework of resilient transmission network r econfiguration considering cyber -attacks 8 network reconfiguration, extending the traditional network reconfiguration by considering the impact s of secondary incidents caused by cyber -attacks. 2) The cyber -attack propagation mechanism in the CPPS, propagation process and impact assessment in the network reconfiguration stage are systematically analyzed. 3) From the perspective of restorability and r obustness, a resilience index system is extracted for assessing impacts of cyber -attacks on network reconfiguration dynamically. The remainder
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Electric Vehicle E-hailing Fleet Dispatching and Charge Scheduling Linji Chena, Homayoun Hamedmoghadamb, Mahdi Jalilib, Mohsen Ramezani a aThe University of Sydney, School of Civil Engineering, Australia bRMIT University, School of Engineering, Australia Abstract With recent developments in vehicle and battery technologies, electric ve- hicles (EVs) are rapidly getting established as a sustainable alternative to traditional fossil-fuel vehicles. This has made the large-scale electri cation of ride-sourcing operations a practical viability, providing an opportunity for a leap toward urban sustainability goals. Despite having a similar driving range to fossil-fuel vehicles, EVs are disadvantaged by their long charging times which compromises the total eet service time. To e ciently manage an EV eet, the operator needs to address the charge scheduling problem as part of the dispatch strategy. This paper introduces a probabilistic match- ing method which evaluates the optimal trip and charging decisions for a fully electri ed e-hailing eet, with the goal of maximising the operator s expected market pro t. In the midst of the technological transition towards autonomous vehicles, it is also critical to include stochastic driver behaviours in transport models as presented in this paper. Since drivers may either com- ply with trip dispatching or choose to reject a charging trip order considering the additional fees, contrary to the commonly assumed eet autonomy, the proposed method designs an incentivisation scheme (charging discounts) to encourage driver compliance so that the planned charging trips and the as- sociated pro t can be realised. Keywords: Probabilistic matching, Fleet management, Charge scheduling, Electric vehicle Email address: mohsen.ramezani sydney.edu.au (Mohsen Ramezani ) Preprint submitted to - February 27, 2023arXiv:2302.12650v1 eess.SY 24 Feb 2023 1. Introduction In recent years, on-demand point-to-point trip services have become an essential pillar in urban transportation. Equipped with new technologies, transportation network companies (TNCs) have the potential to make an impact on both the market and the environment. One of the new opportuni- ties arises from the increasing adoption rate of electric vehicles (EVs). With continuing advances in vehicle and battery technologies, as well as more investments in public charging infrastructures, EVs have become a viable mode for ride-sourcing services. As a result, companies would need e cient management plans for their EV eet to address problems such as charge scheduling and energy utilisation. An e cient eet dispatch method can be bene cial in terms of both the pro t and the battery usage. By balancing the eet state of charge (SoC) with the dynamic spatio-temporal demand levels, the company would be able to serve more customers. The EV eet management problem has been investigated in recent studies from the engineering perspective. Yi and Smart (2021) proposes an optimi- sation method to centrally plan dispatch and charging actions for a eet of autonomous electric vehicles (AEVs). The optimisation is able to achieve more trip deliveries than the heuristic benchmark strategy. The manage- ment problem is often formulated as a Markov decision process which is subsequently optimised by either reinforcement learning Shi et al. (2020), neural networks Kullman et al. (2021); Yu et al. (2021), or dynamic pro- gramming Al-Kanj et al. (2020) methods. These methods are dependent on reliable value function approximations which often require extensive data col- lection. Some literature generalise the problem as a dial-a-ride problem for EVs. Bongiovanni et al. (2019) formulates it as a mixed-integer linear prob- lem and presents a branch-and-cut algorithm to solve small-scale instances. Iacobucci et al. (2019) applies model predictive control methods at two time aggregation levels to derive the optimal decisions. An extensive catalogue of literature investigate the eet management problem for traditional vehicles under di erent assumptions. Most solutions dispatch the moving agents to stationary resources in a centralised manner. Wong et al. (2014, 2015) consider a cell-based network and recommend the most pro table search path for taxis based on the cumulative probability of nding passenger pick-ups. With regard to a dynamic demand and supply en- vironment, Ramezani and Nourinejad (2018) applies macroscopic approaches to evaluate the optimal repositioning decisions for the taxi eet in a large city network. In Duan et al. (2020), the centralised dispatching system is com- bined with decentralised autonomous taxis to distribute the computational workload. In recent years, new management methods have been developed 2 for autonomous vehicle (AV) eets H orl et al. (2019); Vosooghi et al. (2019); Hyland and Mahmassani (2018); Ma et al. (2017). The AV technology can reinforce the feasibility of new energy vehicles by reducing the operational uncertainties. For interested readers, Narayanan et al. (2020) provides review on shared AV services. However, most literature assume full autonomy or driver compliance, meaning that EVs would follow the instructions even with little bene ts. To ensure successful execution of the optimal strategy, an incentivisation policy should be designed. This paper uses a probabilistic matching method to centrally dispatch a eet of EVs to waiting passengers and available charg- ers in the network. The proposed matching method aims to maximise the expected market pro t, considering the future pro tability. Another contri- bution of this paper is the design of an incentivisation policy to encourage EV drivers to abide by the optimal dispatch orders. The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 de nes the problem and general assumptions. Section 3 explains the dispatching problem and proba- bilistic matching in detail. Section 4 describes relevant passenger and driver behavioural models that lead to the stochastic and dynamic market condi- tions. Section 5 elaborates the simulation environment and agent behaviours in detail. Preliminary results are discussed in Section 6. Last, Section 7 summarises current ndings and outlines future directions. 2. Problem Overview This paper develops a centralised matching method for human-driven EVs in an on-demand mobility market considering the dynamic demand-supply relationships, time-varying charging prices, and stochastic dispatch compli- ance behaviours of human drivers. The objective is to maximise the TNC s expected pro ts via optimal batch matching solutions and charging incen- tives. The matching outcomes for vacant EVs are (1) a waiting passenger, (2) a public EV charger,
__label__energy	Nepal Himalaya Offers Considerable Potential for Pumped Storage Hydropower Rupesh Baniya1, Rocky Talchabhadel2 , Jeeban Panthi3, Ganesh R Ghimire4, Sanjib Sharma5, Prithvi Dhwoj Khadka6, Sanghoon Shin7, Yadu Pokhrel8, Utsav Bhattarai9, Rajaram Prajapati10, Bhesh Raj Thapa11, and Ramesh Kumar Maskey12 1Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk Campus, Lalitpur, Nepal; rupesh.baniya480 gmail.com 2Texas A M AgriLife Research, Texas A M University, El Paso, TX, USA; rocky.talchabhadel ag.tamu.edu 3Department of Geosciences, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, RI, USA; jeeban_panthi uri.edu 4Environmental Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA; ganeshghimire1986 gmail.com 5Earth and Environmental Systems Institute, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA; svs6308 psu.edu 6Department of Hydrosciences, Technische Universität Dresden, Tharandt, Germany; prithvidhwoj.khadka gmail.com 7Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA; shinsa11 umd.edu 8Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA; ypokhrel egr.msu.edu 9Institute for Life Sciences and the Environment, University of Southern Queensland, Toowoomba, Queensland 4350, Australia; Utsav.Bhattarai usq.edu.au 10Department of Geology and Environmental Science, University of Pittsburgh, PA, USA; rajaram smartphones4water.org 11Universal Engineering and Science College, Pokhara University, Lalitpur, Nepal; bthapa.ioe gmail.com 12Nepal Academy of Science and Technology, Nepal; drrameshma gmail.com Corresponding author: Rocky Talchabhadel (rocky.talchabhadel ag.tamu.edu) Abstract There is a pressing need for a transition from fossil fuel to renewable energy to meet the increasing energy demands and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Himalayas possess substantial renewable energy potential that can be harnessed through hydropower projects due to its peculiar topographic characteristics and abundant water resources. However, the current exploitation rate is low owing to the predominance of run-of-river hydropower systems to support the power system. The utility-scale storage facility is crucial in the load scenario of an integrated power system to manage diurnal variation, peak demand, and penetration of intermittent energy sources. In this study, we first identify the potential of pumped storage hydropower across Nepal (a central Himalayan country) under multiple configurations by pairing lakes, hydropower projects, rivers, and available flat terrains. We then identify technically feasible pairs from those of potential locations. Infrastructural, environmental, operational, and other technical constraints govern the choice of feasible locations. We find the flat land-to-river configuration most promising than other configurations. Our results provide insight into the potential of pumped storage hydropower and are of practical importance in planning sustainable power systems in the Himalayas and beyond. Keywords: Hydropower, Electricity, Renewable energy, Integrated power system, Pumped storage hydropower. 1. Introduction The global energy sector is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions holding the key to averting the impacts of climate change 1 . The 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) recommended necessary actions to limit the global rise in average temperature below 2 oC from pre-industrial times and to pursue efforts to restrict it to 1.5 C 2,3 . The shift toward Net Zero Emissions by 2050 requires nations to unite and efficiently implement energy and climate change policies, including a massive transformation of the energy sector 4,5 . Increasing the deployment of renewable energy sources is crucial for this transformation 6 8 . Countries with fossil fuel as a primary energy source have a crucial role in significantly mitigating GHG emissions by switching to renewables 3 . Hydropower, the world s largest source of renewable energy, holds the key to this transformation 2,5 , given the variable nature of other renewables such as wind and solar. Hydropower is one of the clean, most cost-effective, and most flexible energy storage technology that can help to ensure a reliable and secure energy supply 9 . The assessment led by the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) estimates that at least 850 GW of hydropower must be produced to keep global warming below 2 C. The figure needs to be doubled to meet the Net Zero emissions target (i.e., below 1.5 C) by 2050 5 . With the rapidly evolving electric grid system due to the influx of wind and solar, there is a need for large-scale energy storage 10,11 . For the global electricity market, hydropower is the least expensive and most efficient large-scale energy storage alternative compared to other technologies such as batteries, hydrogen, and flywheel 8,12 14 . Pumped storage hydropower (PSH; Fig. 1) functions like a giant battery allowing the much-needed reliability and flexibility in the electric grid system 10 . This helps to reduce the need for fossil fuel- based energy sources, which is critical for meeting a single SDG 15 , for example, SDG 7 (affordable and clean energy) and SDG 13 (climate action). Additionally, PSH can provide additional jobs and economic benefits to local communities, thus contributing to SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth), and meeting SDG2 (Zero Hunger) 16 . Finally, it can also help to protect local ecosystems by mitigating the impacts of extreme weather events, thus contributing to SDG 15 (life on land). Therefore, the energy system is ultimately relevant to multiple SDGs 17 . PSH alone accounts for 90 of the world s grid-scale storage applications (160 GW) 5 . Importantly, PSH s ability to store large-scale off-peak, excess, or unusable electrical energy and to facilitate optimal production and consumption with grid stabilization 18,19 makes it the most adopted energy storage technology. PSH is crucial for sustainable transformation in energy due to its ability to balance electricity supply and demand, as well as its potential to store large amounts of energy 8 . It is an important tool in the transition towards a low-carbon energy system, as it can help to reduce the need for fossil-fuel-based electricity generation and provide a way to store excess electricity generated from renewable energy sources 20 . Hence, it is critical to assess feasible locations for such storage projects. Global assessment of the off-PSH identified 616,000 promising locations with a combined storage potential of 23 million GWh 21 . Several regional assessments have shown similar prospects for PSH in different parts of the world, including Turkey 22 , the United States 23
__label__energy	1 Designing Robust Networks of Coupled Phase-Oscillators with Applications to the High Voltage Electric Grid Shriya V. Nagpal , Gokul G. Nair, Francesca Parise , and C. Lindsay Anderson ,Senior Member, IEEE Abstract We propose a mathematical framework for designing robust networks of coupled phase-oscillators by leveraging a vulnerability measure proposed by Tyloo et. al that quantifies the impact of a small perturbation at an individual phase-oscillator s natural frequency blue to the system s global synchronized frequencies. Given a com- plex network topology with specific governing dynamics, the proposed framework finds an optimal allocation of edge weights that minimizes such vulnerability measure(s) at the node(s) for which we expect perturbations to occur by solving a tractable semi-definite programming problem. We specify the mathematical model to high voltage electric grids where each node corresponds to a voltage phase angle associated with a bus and edges correspond to trans- mission lines. Edge weights are determined by the suscep- tance values along the transmission lines. In this applica- tion, frequency synchronization is increasingly challenged by the integration of renewable energy, yet is imperative to the grid s health and functionality. Our framework helps to alleviate this challenge by optimizing the placement of renewable generation and the susceptance values along the transmission lines. Index Terms Coupled phase-oscillators, convex opti- mization, frequency synchronization, high voltage electric grid, robust network design, renewable energy, semidefinite programming I. INTRODUCTION COMPLEX networks are frequently used to model coupled dynamical systems ranging from interacting molecules in chemical reactions 1 to high voltage electric grids 2 . Be it man-made or natural, elements of a coupled dynamical system are represented by nodes in a complex network, and two nodes are adjacent to one another if the differential equations that govern those nodes, are dependent on one another 2 . Two questions that are often investigated in complex networks are: 1) What are the vulnerable nodes of the complex network? indicates the corresponding author and indicates equal contribu- tion. S. V. Nagpal and G. G. Nair are with the Center for Applied Mathematics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA (e-mail: svn23 cornell.edu; gn234 cornell.edu ). F . Parise is with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Center for Applied Mathematics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA (e-mail: fp264 cornel.edu ). C. L. Anderson is with the Department of Biological and Environ- mental Engineering and the Center for Applied Mathematics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA (e-mail: cla28 cornell.edu).2) How can one use this knowledge to design robust complex networks? In this work, we seek to address the latter question for a complex network of coupled phase-oscillators. Specifically, we consider a weighted, connected, and undirected network, G (V, E), where Vis a set of nnodes and Eis a set of medges. B Rn nis the weighted adjacency matrix specifying the edge weights of G;Bij bij 0if(i, j) EandBij 0 if(i, j) E.1Each node i Vin the network corresponds to an angle, θi π, π), that evolves according to the coupled dynamics θi ωi X j N(i)bijsin (θi θj), i 1, . . . , n. (1) where N(i)is the set of all nodes, j, such that (i, j) E. The phase-oscillator s dynamics of node iis determined by its natural frequency, ωi, and its coupling with other phase- oscillators determined by the network s edge weights B. Despite the apparent simplicity, the coupled phase-oscillator model and its variations have been utilized to describe and ana- lyze a broad array of applications including circadian rhythms, flashing fireflies, and high voltage electric grids 3 . In many of these phenomena, it is desirable for phase-oscillators to maintain global synchronized frequencies, i.e., θi ω0for all i 1, . . . , n . Following 4 , we measure vulnerability of a network by quantifying how much a small perturbation to a node s phase- oscillator s natural frequency impacts the system s global synchronized frequencies. A small external perturbation at a node with high vulnerability has a larger influence on the global synchronized frequencies than nodes with a smaller vulnerability measure. Interestingly, in 4 the authors show that such a vulnerability measure may be written as a linear combination of generalized effective resistance measures. In the remainder of this section, we recap intuition into the derivation of this measure and then describe how to leverage this vulnerability measure for the purpose of designing robust systems. We apply the design framework to high voltage grids where each node icorresponds to a voltage phase angle 1We allow for edge weights of the fixed network topology to be 0to facilitate an expansive proposed optimization framework.arXiv:2201.00929v2 math.OC 10 Aug 2023 2 θi π, π), associated with a bus i, and evolves according to the coupled dynamics given in (1), 5 7 . Here, the voltage phase-oscillators ability to maintain synchronized frequencies is essential to the functionality of the grid. The current administration plans to have wind and solar energy comprise ninety percent of the United State s electricity profile by2050 8 , but this integration will likely result in small perturbations to the power injected into the system due to variability on renewable output 4 , 9 , challenging the voltage phase-oscillators capacity to maintain synchronized frequen- cies. This work seeks to address this tension by optimizing the placement of renewable generation and the susceptance values along the transmission lines to minimize the effect of disturbances on the voltage phase-oscillators frequencies, in line with the proposed 2billion dollar government investment for clean energy infrastructure 10 . Notation. LetRdenote the set of real numbers. We consider b Rmto be an mlength vector consisting of all bijwhere (i, j) Eand1to be the all ones vector. The constraint b 0is equivalent to enforcing that bij 0where (i, j) E. L Rn nis the network Laplacian matrix corresponding to G (V, E)where Lij Bijifi j, andLii P kBik, andL Rn nis the Moore Penrose pseudoinverse of L. Throughout the text we use Linterchangeably with L(b)andG interchangeably with G(b)to remind the
__label__energy	arXiv:1702.08065v3 cs.SY 5 Sep 20171 Using Battery Storage for Peak Shaving and Frequency Regulation: Joint Optimization for Superlinear Gains Yuanyuan Shi, Bolun Xu, Di Wang, Baosen Zhang Abstract We consider using a battery storage system simultaneously f or peak shaving and frequency regulation through a joint optimization framework which captures battery degra dation, operational constraints and uncertainties in cust omer load and regulation signals. Under this framework, using re al data we show the electricity bill of users can be reduced by up to 12 . Furthermore, we demonstrate that the saving fro m joint optimization is often larger than the sum of the optimal savings when the battery is used for the two individu al applications. A simple threshold real-time algorithm is proposed and achieves this superlinear gain. Compared to prior works that focused on using battery storage systems for single applications, our results suggest that batterie s can achieve much larger economic beneﬁts than previously thought if they jointly provide multiple services. Index Terms Battery management system, frequency regulation service, power system economics, data centers I. I NTRODUCTION Battery energy storage systems are becoming increasingly i mportant in power system operations. As the pen- etration of uncertain and intermittent renewable resource s increase, storage systems are critical to the robustness, resiliency, and efﬁciency of energy systems. For example, s tudies suggest that 22 GW of energy storage would be needed in California by 2050 1 and the entire United States could require 152 GW of storage 2 . Much of these capacities are expected to be achieved by distributed stora ge systems owned by individual consumers 3 . Currently, the two most prominent types of consumers that ow n signiﬁcant levels of storage are information technology companies and operators of large buildings. Com panies such as Microsoft and Google use battery storages extensively in their data centers as failover to on site local generation 4 . These systems are sized to the capacity of the data center: a 10 MW data center will have a sto rage system with the power rating of 10 MW with several minutes of energy capacity. In commercial building s, batteries are used to smooth their load and provide backup services 5 . These batteries tend to be slightly sma ller, but are still in the 100 s of kW kWh range. Y . Shi, B. Xu and B. Zhang are with the Department of Electrica l Engineering at the University of Washington. Emails: yyshi,xubolun,zhangbao uw.edu. These authors are partia lly supported by the Washington Clean Energy Institute and M icrosoft. D. Wang is with Microsoft Research. Emails: wangdi microso ft.com September 2016 DRAFT 2 ! !() ( ( ( ( ! ) ,-. 0.123 -.4056781 9.6: ; 6 14 ?0 8A B8C D8 1C 8E7 F6781 Fig. 1. Annual electricity bill savings for a 1MW data center (in PJM control area, total bill of 488,370) under differen t battery usage scenarios. Savings from the joint optimization framework proposed in t his paper is larger than the sum of savings from frequency reg ulation service and peak shaving. Today, despite their potential to grid services, these batt ery storage systems are not integrated with the power system. To a storage owner, whether a battery taking part in g rid services is predominantly determined by the economic beneﬁts of these services. For example, a data cent er replaces its batteries every four years or so under normal conditions 6 . If the battery participates in the el ectricity market, batteries may degrade faster and require more frequent replacements. Do the gains from the market jus tify the additional operational and capital costs? The question of optimally operating a battery to maximize it s economic beneﬁt is a central one and has spurred a substantial body of research. The problems include energy arbitrage, peak shaving, frequency regulation, demand response and others (e.g. see 7 10 and the references wi thin). In the past several years, it has been recognized that because of the high capital cost of batteries 11 , serv ing a single application is often difﬁcult to justify their investments 12 . In addition, picking a single applicatio n does not consider the possibility of multiple revenue streams and may leave money on the table . Consequently, a r ecent line of research has started to analyze the co-optimization of batteries for both energy arbitrage and regulation services 13 , 14 . In this paper, we consider the joint optimization of using a battery storage system for both peak shaving and frequency regulation for a commercial customer. Peak shaving can be used to reduce the peak demand charge for these customers and the (fast) frequency regulation is an id eal service to provide for batteries because of their near instantaneous response time. The challenge in combini ng these two applications lies in their vastly different timescales : peak demand charge is calculated every month on a smoothed p ower consumption proﬁle (e.g. 15-minute averages), while fast frequency regulation requires a deci sion every 2 to 4 seconds. The key observation in our work is that serving different app lications over different timescales is economically September 2016 DRAFT 3 beneﬁcial to the battery: by exploring the diversity in diff erent applications, we can obtain a so-called superlinear gain. An example of the superlinear gain is presented in Fig. 1. It gives the annual electricity bill savings for a 1MW data center under three scenarios, using batteries for f requency regulation service, peak shaving and joint optimization. For joint optimization, we use a simple onlin e threshold algorithm given in Section IV . While for peak shaving and regulation service, the solutions are ofﬂi ne optimal. The super-linear gain arises for reasons that would be explored in depth in the rest of the paper, but brieﬂy speaking, the randomness of frequency regulation signal could contribute to more efﬁcient peak shaving. By ex ploring the diversity and mutual beneﬁt in different applications, we have this non-linear
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	1 Screening Curve Method for Economic Analysis of Household Solar Energy Self-Consumption Hikaru Hoshino, Member , Yosuke Irie, Eiko Furutani, Member Abstract The profitability of solar energy self-consumption in households, the so-called photovoltaic (PV) self-consumption, is expected to boost the deployment of PV and battery storage systems. This paper develops a novel method for economic analysis of PV self-consumption using battery storage based on an extension of the Screening Curve Method (SCM). The SCM enables quick and intuitive estimation of the least-cost generation mix for a target load curve and has been used for generation planning for bulk power systems. In this paper, we generalize the framework of existing SCM to take into account the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources and apply it to the problem of optimal sizing of PV and battery storage systems for a household. Numerical studies are provided to verify the estimation accuracy of the proposed SCM and to illustrate its effectiveness in a sensitivity analysis, owing to its ability to show intuitive plots of cost curves for researchers or policy-makers to understand the reasons behind the optimization results. Index Terms Solar PV , battery storage, screening curve method, feed-in tariffs. I. I NTRODUCTION THE installation capacity of solar photovoltaics (PV) in the world has increased over the past decades owing to the use of support policies such as feed-in tariffs 1 , 2 . Recently, the price of PV has declined dramatically, and the grid parity has been reached in several countries 3 , which means that PV can produce electricity at a price below the price of electricity purchased from the grid. In these regions or countries, not only selling electricity to the grid but also self-consumption of PV-produced electricity can bring economic benefit to the consumer. Because of this, the deployment of PV based on household solar energy self- consumption, which is called as PV self-consumption 4 , has attracted great interest. As one of the policies based on the concept of PV self-consumption, many countries introduced net-metering or net-billing mechanisms 5 , where the surplus electricity fed into the grid is rewarded with credits that can be applied to offset consumption. However, there have been intense debates on net-metering policies regarding recovery of network costs and equity of cost allocation 6 , 7 , and several setbacks and cancellations in the application of these policies have occurred 3 . Furthermore, various new self-consumption schemes, such as collective or distributed self-consumption 8 , 9 , are proposed or implemented in several countries, and This work was supported in part by JST, ACT-X Grant Number JPM- JAX210M, Japan. The authors are with the Department of Electrical Materials and Engi- neering, University of Hyogo, 2167 Shosha, Himeji, Hyogo, 671-2280, Japan (email: hoshino eng.u-hyogo.ac.jp).thus appropriate regulatory frameworks based on the concept of self-consumption remain to be discussed. To contribute to such discussions, economic analysis for evaluating the profitability of PV self-consumption has been extensively studied. Existing methods can be categorized into optimization and simulation methods, depending on whether the capacities of PV and battery storage are optimization variables or simulated as exogenous parameters 10 . Since simulation-based methods might underestimate the economic value of the investment 11 , it is important to correctly determine the sizes of the PV and battery storage according to the customers load profiles, and thus optimization methods are often used 12 , 13 , 14 . While these methods can incorporate constraints to describe various situations, it takes hours or days to obtain optimization results. Therefore, only a limited number of scenarios (input data and parameters) are likely to be analyzed to provide inadequate information to infer a trend for inputs. Besides, these methods gives the optimization results like a black box , and limited intuition can be gained from the obtained results. Since there is a high uncertainty in the estimates of parameters such as prices and costs, the above two issues of computational time and the interpretability of the results make it difficult for policy-makers and regulators to learn from these optimization studies. The Screening Curve Method (SCM) is an intuitive and quick method for estimating the least-cost generation mix, and it is a good tool to provide answers to the above issues. SCM was first proposed in the 1960s 15 , 16 . It compares the summations of annualized upfront investment costs (fixed costs) and production costs (variable costs) of multiple technologies to determine the optimal mix when no technical constraints are considered. In recent years, much effort has been made to develop enhanced versions of SCM to estimate the optimal mix considering technical details. The start-up cost, thermal cycling, and other miscellaneous short- term operations of thermal generation are modeled in 17 , 18 . Furthermore, ancillary services are considered in 19 , hydro scheduling is modeled in 20 , existing capacities are considered in 21 , 22 , and planned outages are considered in 23 . All of these SCMs have been developed for estimating the optimal capacity mix in a bulk power system. The purpose of this paper is to develop an SCM for eco- nomic analysis of photovoltaic self-consumption to estimate optimal sizes of PV and battery storage systems at the demand side. It has been known that the framework of SCM can be applied to the optimal sizing of various sources to satisfy load demands 24 , 25 . However, there has been no existingarXiv:2308.00244v2 eess.SY 12 Jan 2024 2 SCM that can take into account the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources. In this paper, to consider the fact that the amount of electricity generated by PV depends on the solar irradiation at each time, we newly adopt a time-varying scheme to decompose the load curve, whereas time-invariant load slices have been used in existing SCMs to decompose the original optimization problem into sub-problems. It is shown that the proposed SCM can be used to estimate the optimal solution of a Linear Programming (LP) problem. While an estimation algorithm has been
__label__energy	Accepted author version of 10.1109 VPPC60535.2023.10403325. Round-Trip Energy Efficiency and Energy- Efficiency Fade Estimation for Battery Passport Camiel Beckers , Erik Hoedemaekers , Arda Dagkilic and Henk Jan Bergveld Powertrains Dept., TNO, Helmond, The Netherlands, Email: camiel.beckers tno.nl VDL Enabling Transport Solutions, Valkenswaard, The Netherlands Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands NXP Semiconductors, Eindhoven, The Netherlands Abstract The battery passport is proposed as a method to make the use and remaining value of batteries more transparent. The future EU Battery Directive requests this passport to contain the round-trip energy efficiency and its fade. In this paper, an algorithm is presented and demonstrated that estimates the round-trip energy efficiency of a battery pack. The algorithm identifies round trips based on battery current and SoC and characterizes these round trips based on certain conditions. 2D efficiency maps are created as a function of the conditions temperature and RMS C-rate . The maps are parameterized using multiple linear regression, which allows comparison of the efficiency under the same conditions. Analyzing data from three battery-electric buses over a period of 3.5 years reveals an efficiency fade of up to 0.86 percent point. Index Terms Battery Passport, Electric Vehicle, Battery Effi- ciency, Energy Efficiency, Multiple Linear Regression I. I NTRODUCTION In the transition to electrically powered road transport, most Electric Vehicles (EVs) rely on Lithium-Ion Batteries (LIBs). In 2021, the total yearly EV battery request was near 350 GWh, and this number is expected to increase to at least 2 TWh by 2030 1 . Simultaneously, more EVs are entering the second-hand market and batteries of depreciated vehicles are repurposed in second-use applications such as stationary energy storage. This brings challenges concerning the re-use of LIBs from EVs, including the fact that reliable methods are required to grade the quality of the LIBs 2 . Driven by the growing EV battery market, the European Commission proposed a new EU Battery Directive 3 in 2020, repealing Directive 2006 66 EC and amending Regulation (EU) No 2019 1020. Part of this proposed directive is the introduction of a battery passport that gathers key information for every EV battery. This information is supposed to be made accessible online and also includes health information about the EV battery, which is to be updated throughout the battery s lifetime. This information will play a key role in determining the current value of the battery, e.g., in case of resale, its applicability in other applications, e.g., second-life applications in grid energy storage, and will help in defining This work has received financial support from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate, under the grant R D Mobility Sectors carried out by the Netherlands Enterprise Agency.the right moment to recycle a battery. The realization of the battery passport will pose several technical challenges; Firstly, research is required to translate the abstract legislation into practical measures and implications. Specifically, the battery-health parameters mentioned in the EU directive are to be defined from a technical perspective and appropriate algorithms should be developed to estimate these parameters based on real-world data. Secondly, the resulting information has to be stored in the passport permanently and reliably. One of the parameters that is expected to be part of the EU- legislated battery passport is the round-trip energy efficiency ηRT,e and the fade, or decrease over time, of ηRT,e with respect to that of the new battery 3 . The round-trip energy efficiency ηRT,e, also named electrical efficiency, quantifies the energy that can be withdrawn from a battery with respect to the energy that is required to charge the battery back to the same State of Charge ( SoC ) 4 . Thereby, ηRT,e incorporates the effects of various battery parameters, e.g., the battery impedance, under real operating conditions and characterizes the battery losses in an interpretable way. Energy inefficiency is caused by a combination of 1) the polarization voltage during (dis)charging and 2) the coulombic losses, which are often represented by the coulombic efficiency 5 . The coulombic efficiency of Li-ion cells is generally higher than 99 , and requires precision lab equipment to be measured accurately 6 . The energy efficiency is per definition lower than the coulombic efficiency and is typically in the order of 96 for LIBs, but can be as low as 85.5 for specific situations 7, Fig. 6 . As a battery ages, both the decrease of the coulombic efficiency and the increase in the internal impedance, caused by SEI layer growth and lithium plating, will decrease ηRT,e 8 . Furthermore, the energy efficiency of a cell is reported to depend on SoC 9 , Depth of Discharge (DoD ) 9 , C-rate 10 , and battery temperature T 11 . Round-trip efficiency measurements often involve prescrib- ing predetermined discharge charge cycles to a battery or cell 12 . By integrating the power over these round trips, the energy efficiency can be calculated. Some studies apply this method to partial cycles, each at a constant C-rate, thereby enabling the calculation of the SoC -dependency of ηRT,e 9 . In other cases, the round-trip efficiency is split into charge and discharge energy efficiency, by using knowledge of the 2023 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.arXiv:2308.15828v2 eess.SY 5 Feb 2024 Accepted author version of 10.1109 VPPC60535.2023.10403325. cell s electromotive force, or open-circuit voltage 13 , 14 . However, few studies provide energy efficiency results based on drive-cycle data and there are only few papers that study the energy-efficiency fade 8 . This paper presents an algorithm to determine the round- trip efficiency ηRT,e and its fade thereby making three main contributions: 1) An algorithm to determine ηRT,e based on drive cycles. 2) A methodology to compare the
__label__energy	Control-oriented modeling of a LiBr H2O absorption heat pumping device and experimental validation Sandra Staudta,b, Viktor Unterbergera, Markus G ollesa,b, , Michael Wernhartc, Ren e Riebererc, Martin Horna,b aBEST - Bioenergy and Sustainable Technologies GmbH, In eldgasse 21 B, 8010 Graz, Austria bInstitute of Automation and Control, Graz University of Technology, In eldgasse 21 B, 8010 Graz, Austria cInstitute of Thermal Engineering, Graz University of Technology, In eldgasse 25 B, 8010 Graz, Austria Abstract Absorption heat pumping devices (AHPDs, comprising absorption heat pumps and chillers) are devices that use thermal energy instead of electricity to generate heating and cooling, thereby facilitating the use of waste heat and renewable energy sources such as solar or geothermal energy. Despite this beneﬁt, widespread use of AHPDs is still limited. One reason for this is partly unsatisfactory control performance under varying operating conditions, which can result in poor modulation and part load capability. A promising approach to tackle this issue is using dynamic, model-based control strategies, whose e ectiveness, however, strongly depend on the model being used. This paper therefore focuses on the derivation of a viable dynamic model to be used for such model-based control strategies for AHPDs such as state feedback or model-predictive control. The derived model is experimentally validated, showing good modeling accuracy. Its modeling accuracy is also compared to alternative model versions, that contain other heat transfer correlations, as a benchmark. Although the derived model is mathematically simple, it does have the structure of a nonlinear di erential-algebraic system of equations. To obtain an even simpler model structure, linearization at an operating point is discussed to derive a model in linear state space representation. The experimental validation shows that the linear model does have slightly worse steady-state accuracy, but that the dynamic accuracy seems to be almost una ected by the linearization. The presented new modeling approach is considered suitable to be used as a basis for the design of advanced, model-based control strategies, ultimately aiming to improve the modulation and part load capability of AHPDs. Keywords: absorption, heat pump, chiller, model, experimental validation, LiBr 1. Introduction Heat pumping devices (HPDs, comprising heat pumps and chillers) are devices that can transfer thermal energy from a low to a high temperature level. This requires an energetic in- put, either in the form of mechanical work (usually supplied by an electric motor) in the case of compression HPDs or in the form of high-temperature thermal energy in the case of absorp- tion HPDs (AHPDs). Therefore, AHPDs can use waste heat and renewable energy sources such as solar or geothermal en- ergy instead of electricity to generate heating and cooling in a resource-e cient manner. Despite this beneﬁt, AHPDs are still not a very common tech- nology since operators are often put o by the increased com- plexity of AHPDs (e.g. more in- and output variables compared to compression HPS) and a lack of dynamic control strate- gies that allow good control performance over a wide operat- ing range and that consider the coupled dynamics of di erent system variables 1 . Current control strategies for AHPDs typ- ically use SISO PI controllers or rely on simple ON OFF oper- ation, which may be su cient for many current AHPD applica- tions with rather constant operating conditions. However, they Corresponding author: In eldgasse 21 B, 8010 Graz, Austria Email address: markus.goelles best-research.eu (Markus G olles)can reach their limits when AHPDs are integrated into modern, more complex energy systems where renewable, volatile energy sources play an increasingly important role. Here, one way to further advance AHPD control is to design dynamic model- based control strategies for AHPDs, e.g. 2 , (such as state feedback or model-predictive control) to extend their operating range. This, however, ﬁrst requires a suitable control-oriented, dynamic AHPD model - preferably in the form of a state-space model - which is the focus of this paper. The modeling ap- proaches discussed here refer to AHPDs with the working ﬂuid lithium bromide water (LiBr H2O). In the following, ﬁrst an overview of available models from literature is given, followed by the contribution this paper aims to make and its structure. 1.1. Available models for LiBr H2O AHPDs The literature on modeling of LiBr H2O AHPDs contains sev- eral reasonable approaches, including some that can be used as a basis for a control-oriented AHPD model. An overview shall be given subsequently: Available models for AHPDs can ﬁrst of all be divided into black-box models on the one hand and physically based models on the other hand. In the former case, the authors of 3 developed a dynamic artiﬁcial neural network model and successfully showed selected experimental validation results. In 4 a neural network approach is used to Preprint submitted to Journal of Process Control 28th March 2023arXiv:2303.15097v1 eess.SY 27 Mar 2023 model steady-state correlations between desired cooling capac- ity, selected disturbance variables and the corresponding neces- sary driving energy. Such black-box approaches have the dis- advantage that they are not easily scalable though and thus have to be re-trained with a large number of (measurement) data to derive a robust model for a new machine, even if the AHPD design is similar and only the size di ers from the reference machine. Physically-based models, on the other hand, are eas- ier to scale. They are also signiﬁcantly more prevalent in the literature on AHPD modeling and can roughly be subdivided into three groups: First, there are steady-state models, e.g. 5 14 , which can be very useful in the dimensioning and design process, for feedforward-control of AHPD and for system-level control of energy systems with AHPD as shown in 11 13 but are not viable for dynamic model-based control methods since they do not capture the AHPD s dynamics. Second, there are dynamic, discretized models, i.e. the compo- nents of the AHPD are spatially discretized in the model, e.g. 15 18 . These are excellent models for very detailed simula- tion studies but are usually too complex and computationally expensive to be used
__label__energy	FPGA Based SoC Estimator and Constant Current Charging Discharging Controller for Lead Acid Battery P. Dinesh, K. Kumar Teja, Shashank Singh, Selvan M.P., and Moorthi S. Hybrid Electrical Systems Laboratory, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu 620015, India fp.dinesh.id, kumartejakalava, shashanksingh0110 g gmail.com,fselvanmp, srimoorthi g nitt.edu Abstract The state of charge (SoC) and the rate of charg- ing discharging current are the vital parameters associated with a battery by which its accurate runtime can be estimated. This paper aims to design a controller which comprises of a ﬁeld programmable gate array, back to back connected dc dc convert- ers, and a resistive touch display based graphical user interface (GUI). The controller estimates SoC and performs constant cur- rent charging or discharging of the battery. The implementation of GUI is to input the reference charging discharging current from the user and to display the SoC. This research delves into battery and obtains its internal parameters by conducting hybrid pulse power characterization test. Furthermore, the obtained internal parameters are processed through an extended Kalman ﬁlter which yields the SoC. This controller has large applications in the renewable energy system, battery testing system, smart residential energy management systems, and micro grids. Keywords Battery management system, dc dc converters, FPGA, extended Kalman ﬁlter, state of charge (SoC). I. I NTRODUCTION The effects of climate change and the extinction of fossil fuels have led to the rapid development of clean renewable energy generation systems to meet the ever-increasing demand for electricity. There is a need of energy storage system to meet the variations in demand. Batteries are known to be one of the best electrical energy storage systems. Among various batteries, the lead-acid batteries are preferred for many appli- cations because of its low-cost, reliability, robustness, tolerant to overcharging, and can deliver very high constant currents. The extensive applications of lead-acid batteries are in electric vehicles, renewable energy integration, uninterruptible power supplies, emergency lights, etc. The lead-acid batteries are observed to be a cost-effective solution of an energy storage system with high power density and operational safety. The state of charge (SoC) is a measure of the available amount of charge in the battery. The complex internal dy- namics of batteries makes this parameter difﬁcult to estimate. It is a critical parameter, which if kept within appropriate limits (e.g. 20 to 80 ), not only improves the lifetime Funded under the Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India, being implemented by Digital India Corporation (formerly Media Lab Asia).of battery by preventing it from being overcharged or deep discharged but also increases its reliability in various appli- cations 1 , 2 . Different methods have been developed for the SoC estimation, e.g. speciﬁc gravity, open circuit voltage (OCV), and coulomb counting. In speciﬁc gravity method, the measurement of concentration of electrolyte is required for estimation of the SoC. It requires large stabilization time for getting satisfactory results. The OCV has a direct relationship with SoC which requires battery to be kept in rest position. The current integration method causes drift in results over long period because of error accumulation. To overcome these drawbacks, various equivalent circuit model (ECM) based algorithms are proposed, e.g. extended Kalman ﬁlter (EKF) 3 6 , unscented Kalman ﬁlter 7 9 , and discrete non-linear observer 10 . These algorithms are more robust because it requires the measurement of current and voltage unlike current integration method or open circuit voltage method which relies only upon one parameter. Further, the measured terminal voltage acts as a feedback to form a closed-loop estimation method which in turn provides more accurate results. The advancement in machine learning and artiﬁcial intelligence in recent years have led to the devel- opment of neural network based algorithms 11 , 12 . The fuzzy model and support vector machine based algorithms are proposed in 13 and 14 . These methods 11 14 require an intensive training with huge data and provide a powerful means of modeling a complex nonlinear system. Zhao H. et al. 15 have proposed dual-polarization-resistance model and stated that the closed loop ECM based models are accurate and robust, and has found wide application for SoC estimation. A key step towards SoC estimation is construction of ECM with high-ﬁdelity. The ECM of the battery is obtained from hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) test. The HPPC test needs constant current charging discharging of the battery. The applications of constant current charging discharging are many, e.g. smart energy management systems 16 , 17 , battery testing systems 18 , micro-grids 19 , electric vehicles 20 . The design and development of a controller using ﬁeld- programmable gate array (FPGA) is the major contribution of this work. The controller s capability are as follows: (1) Per- forms HPPC test and obtains the values of internal parameters 978-1-5386-8235-7 18 31.00 2018 IEEEarXiv:2002.06334v1 eess.SP 15 Feb 2020 to construct the ECM. (2) Executes EKF to estimate SoC. (3) Charges discharges battery at constant current rate. (4) Equipped with a touch-screen based graphical user interface (GUI) to input the reference value of charging discharging current. The paper is organized in following way. Section II deals with design and development of controller followed by con- stant current charging discharging algorithm in section III. The battery modeling and literature are explained in section IV . Section V contains experiments performed to obtain internal parameters of battery, SoC measurements and results. Section VI draws the conclusion. II. D ESCRIPTION OF CONTROLLER The developed controller charges discharges the battery at a constant current provided by user via GUI. It also estimates the SoC of the battery. The controller comprises of two back to back connected DC-DC converters equipped with closed loop current control and a GUI. The GUI displays the SoC of the battery and provides interface to input the reference value of charging discharging current. The closed loop current control for constant charg- ing discharging heavily relies on accurate measurement of current.
__label__energy	1 Integration of hydrothermal liquefaction and carbon capture and storage for the production of advanced liquid biofuels with negative CO 2 emissions E.M. Lozano, T.H. Pedersen , L.A. Rosendahl Department of Energy Technology, Aalborg University, Pontoppidanstræde 111, 9220 Aalborg Øst, Denmark Abstract: The technical and economic feasibility to deliver sustainable liquid biocrude through hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) while enabling negative carbon dioxide emissions is evaluated in this paper , looking into the potenti al of the process in the context of nega tive emission technologies (NETs) for climate change mitigation. In the HTL process, a gas phase consisting mainly of carbon diox ide is obtained as a side product driving a potential for the implementation of carbon capture and storage in the process (BECCS) that has not been explored yet in the existing literature and is undertaken in this study. To this end, the process is divided in a standard HTL base and a carbon capture add-on, having forestry residues as feedstock . The Selexol technology is adapted in a novel scheme to simultaneously separate the CO 2 from the HTL gas and recover the excess hydrogen for biocrude upgrading . The cost evaluation indicates that the additional cost of the carbon capture can be compensated by revenues from the excess process heat and the European carbon allowance market . The impact in the MFSP of the HTL base case ranges from -7 to 3 , with -15 in the most favorable scenario , with a GHG emissions reduction potential of 102-113 compared to the fossil baseline. These results show that the implementation of CCS in the HTL process is a promising alternative from technical , economic and environmental perspective in future scenarios in which advanced liquid biofuels and NETs are expected to play a role in the decarbonization of the energy system. Graphical abstract: Gas phase Upgrading Biocrude Recovered H2Upgraded Biocrude Biocrude CO 2 HTL Excess H2 Selexol Electrolysis H2 Purge Aqueous purge 2500 BBL d Combustible gas Excess Heat for DH Aquous phase valorization (CHG , AD, etc.) Keywords: advanced biofuels, hydrotherma l liquefaction, BECCS, techno -economic analysis , negative emission technologies. 1. INTRODUCTION According to the IPCC s fifth assessment report, negative emission technologies (NET s) are likely to play a significant role to meet the climate targets in the f uture and hold global warming to well below 2 ºC compared to pre -industrial levels , as Corresponding author. E -mail address: thp et.aau.dk 2 established in the Paris agreement . Among these, the combined use of biomass with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) has shown the highest CO 2 reduction potential in Integrated Assessment Models (IAMs) , being identified as a key concept to achieve climate change mitigation 1,2 . In BECCS, the combination of CCS with low -carbon or carbon -neutral bioenergy has shown capability to generate negative CO 2 emissions while simultaneously supply energy in the form of electricity, heat or fuel. In this approach, part of the carbon dioxide that is naturally absorbed by sustainably harvested biomass is not released ba ck to the atmosphere but instead sequestered underground, having as result overall negative carbon emissions. While the main focus of BECCS has been given to ethanol ferment ation processes and cogeneration , as they comprise the main commercially available applications for extended biomass use, the re is lack of literature that evaluates the implementation of CCS in thermochemical processes, and particularly in the production of advanced liquid biofuels , despite of its high potential and the increasing intere st in the development and commercialization of these technologies. Due to their compati bility with existing fossil -fuels infrastructure and utilization pathways , advanced drop-in biofuels are considered the most readily available alternative for direct im plementation in the energy system , enabling a faster carbon emission reduction in the segments of the transportation sector that cannot be easily decarbonized by e.g. direct electrification (i.e. aviation, maritime). In Europe, the revised Renewable Energy Directive (REDII) entered into force in December 2018 setting a target of 14 renewables in the transport sector by 2030, with a minimum contribution of 3.5 for advanced biofuels 3 . Hydrothermal Liquefaction (HTL): Among different technologies for advanced biofuels production, hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) stands out as a highly feedstock flexible and conversion effective route , being capable of handling a wide range of wet dry organic materials. HTL is a thermochemical process in which the main product obtained is a biocrude an oxygenated precursor of hydrocarbon fuels that can be further upgraded to meet product specifications using standard refinery technology . The HTL process occurs in the presence of water at sub or supercritical hydrothermal conditions, effectively in the range of temperatures from 250 ºC to 450 ºC, and pressures from approximately 100 350 bar for sufficient time to break down the polymeric structure of the biomass and to form the oily product (order of minutes) . In a subsequent hydrotreating step, excess hydrogen is used for heteroatom removal, bonds saturation an d overall improvement of the biocrude quality towards the final drop -in fuels 4 . HTL technology is currently at pilot demonstration scale with several companies and on -going projects aiming to bring the technology to commercialization on different biomass types and at different process conditions . Examples ar e Steeper Energy ApS (Canada Denmark), Licella (Australia), Muradel Pty Ltd. (Australia), Southern Oil Refining (Australia), Genifuel Corporation ( USA) , and Reliance (India) . Recent estimates have shown that the minimum fuel selling price (MFSP) of finishe d fuel (e.g., gasoline equivalents) achieved using HTL technology is in the range of 0.6-1.3 USD L , with the hydrogen consumption and price as one of the most sensitive parameters 4 6 . In the HTL literature, d ifferent feedstock have been tested including lignocellulosic biomass, algae and waste biomasses such as manure, sewage sludge or municipal solid waste . From these, lignocellulosic feedstock , particularly residual woody biomasses, represent the largest availability of non -food low indirect -land use
__label__energy	Assessing the Optimistic Bias in the Natural Inflow Forecasts: A Call for Model Monitoring in Brazil Arthur Brigatto1, Alexandre Street1 , Cristiano Fernandes1, Davi Vallad ao2, Guilherme Bodin3 and Joaquim Dias Garcia3 1Electrical engineering Department at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio). 2Industrial engineering Department at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio). 3PSR, Rio de Janeiro. Abstract Hydroelectricity accounted for roughly 66 of Brazil s total generation in 2023 and addressed most of the intermittency of wind and solar generation. Thus, inflow forecasting plays a critical role in the operation, planning, and market in this country, as well as in any other hydro-dependent power system. These forecasts influence generation schedules, reservoir management, and market pricing, shaping the dynamics of the entire electricity sector. In this paper, we identify and report a systematic optimistic bias in the official inflow forecast methodology, which is based on the PAR(p)-A model. By analyzing 14 years of historical data from the Brazilian system through rolling-window multistep (out-of-sample) forecasts, results indicate that the official forecast model exhibits statistically significant biases of 6 , 14 , 20 , and 24 for 1-, 6-, 12-, and 24-step-ahead forecasts in the Southeast subsystem, and 19 , 57 , 81 , and 109 in the Northeast subsystem. These findings uncover the limitations of current inflow forecasting methodologies used in Brazil and call for new governance and monitoring policies. Keywords: Brazilian power system, forecast bias, hydrothermal power system, inflow forecast, operation planning, periodic autoregressive, renewable energy. 1. Introduction From short-term generation scheduling and market pricing to long-term planning, models and their data play a central role in power systems worldwide. Policymakers can pass new laws and design new markets, but if the new guidelines are not well reflected, if data is imprecise, or if the forecasts feeding the chain of models used to dispatch, plan, or price electricity are biased, the functioning of the entire system and market can be at risk. In this paper, we present concerning evidence of systematically biased inflow forecasts being used to feed the entire chain of models in Brazil. In the following, we provide a comprehensive motivation for the topic, highlight the regulatory willingness for changes in Brazil, and define the aim and objective of the paper. Hydropower is the primary renewable source for electricity generation within the Brazilian en- ergy infrastructure, representing a significant portion of the installed capacity for power generation as of May 2023, totaling 59.3 . Even in cases of drought, hydroelectric plants still account for the majority of electricity generation in this country. In this context, a long-term multistage dis- Corresponding author: Alexandre Street (street puc-rio.br) Preprint submitted to Journal of L ATEX Templates December 31, 2024arXiv:2410.13763v2 eess.SY 29 Dec 2024 patch planning model, generally based on the Stochastic Dual Dynamic Programming technique (SDDP, see Pereira and Pinto (1991)), is used to estimate the opportunity cost of water, which is then used in the short-term operation procedures to define the day-ahead scheduling and market prices. However, this multistage operational policy heavily relies on multiperiod forecasts (e.g., 60 months in Brazil) of water inflow time series. Hence, any systematic bias in the inflow forecasts can impact the water values and compromise the optimal usage of this scarce resource over time. In hydro-dependent power systems, such as Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Norway, and Vietnam, to mention a few, this process varies from country to country, depending on the market design. Still, its heavy reliance on inflow forecasts is typically unchanged. The literature on inflow forecasting is vast. From machine learning techniques applied to inflow forecast (see da Silva et al. (2024) and Latif and Ahmed (2023)) to the study on how relevant climate phenomena, such as El Nino and La Nina, affect inflow patterns Huang et al. (2019) and influence Latin American markets Vel asquez et al. (2016). In the case of Brazil, the official SDDP implementation makes use of aggregated reservoirs, where the total natural water inflow within a given subsystem is transformed into its total equivalent Natural Inflow Energy (NIE). The NIE time series has been widely studied in academic papers in various contexts (see Ma caira et al. (2015), de Matos et al. (2008) and references therein). However, to comply with the SDDP convexity hypothesis, NIE time series have been forecasted by the Periodic Autoregressive (PARp) model (see Pereira et al. (1984), Noakes et al. (1985) and de Matos and Finardi (2012a) for a discussion on the PARp model). More recently, the PARp model was replaced by the PARp-A model, which adds an annual moving-average term to the original PARp model, obtained by averaging, at each period of time, the last 12 monthly observations. This was motivated by evidence that the PARp model was unable to capture longer inflow profiles below the long-term average observed in the historical data (We refer to GT-Metodologia-CPAMP (2022)). Within the context of optimal dynamic-programming-based policies Pereira and Pinto (1991), an unbiased assessment of the cost-to-go function, which comprises the optimal operating cost from the second stage onward, is crucial for achieving the optimal balance between immediate (first-stage decisions) and future dispatch costs, and thereby drive the system towards a safe and cost-effective storage path. In contrast, optimistically biased NIE forecasts, especially for k 2 steps ahead, can potentially introduce bias in the dispatch decisions and lead the system to riskier storage levels. Therefore, it is crucial to monitor the multiple-step-ahead NIE forecast bias to avoid biasing the water values and, consequently, generation scheduling decisions and prices. From the empirical side, serious droughts have been observed in Brazil since 2013, with the most recent one occurring in the second semester of 2021 (see Cuartas et al. (2022)). However, the dispatch orders suggested by the official models often delayed the activation of preventive actions, such as thermoelectric dispatches in pre-crisis situations even though it was clear that these actions were needed at that time. This recurrent pattern has systematically triggered out-of-merit emergency dispatch orders, leading to high costs that consumers
__label__energy	A P ROBABILISTIC APPROACH TO ADAPTIVE PROTECTION IN THE SMART GRID A P REPRINT Amr S. Mohamed Deepa Kundur Department of Electrical Engineering University of Toronto Toronto, ON M5S 3G4, Canada amr.mohamed mail.utoronto.ca dkundur ece.utoronto.caMohsen Khalaf Department of Electrical Engineering University of Toronto Toronto, ON M5S 3G4, Canada and Assiut University Assiut, Egypt m.khalaf utoronto.ca mohsen.b.khalaf aun.edu.eg ABSTRACT Smart grids are critical cyber-physical systems that are vital to our energy future. Smart grids fault resilience is dependent on the use of advanced protection systems that can reliably adapt to changing grid conditions. The vast amount of operational data generated and collected in smart grids can be used to develop these protection systems. However, given the safety-criticality of protection, the algorithms used to analyze this data must be stable, transparent, and easily interpretable to ensure the reliability of the protection decisions. Additionally, the protection decisions must be fast, selective, simple, and reliable. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a data-driven protection strategy, based on Gaussian Discriminant Analysis, for fault detection and isolation. This strategy minimizes the communication requirements for time-inverse relays, facilitates their coordination, and optimizes their settings. The interpretability of the protection decisions is a key focus of this paper. The method is demonstrated by showing how it can protect the medium-voltage CIGRE network as it transitions between islanded and grid-connected modes, and radial and mesh topologies. Keywords Adaptive Protection, Microgrid, Gaussian Discriminant Analysis, Machine Learning, Inverse-time Protection 1 Introduction The smart grid is a critical cyber-physical system that plays a central role in modernizing the energy landscape. It stands to enhance energy security, facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources, and enable signiﬁcant improvements in energy efﬁciency. Enabling the smart grid is dependent on the development of reliable protection schemes to ensure its resilience against faults. Smart grid protection is a highly challenging task, particularly at the distribution level in microgrids, due to factors such as bidirectional power ﬂow, ﬂexible topology, and the increasing utilization of renewable energy sources 1, 2 . As microgrids transition between different topology conﬁgurations and between grid-connected mode with a high short-circuit current capacity and islanded mode with limited and variable capacity, it is vital for the protection schemes to adapt to changing grid conditions 3, 4 . Adaptive protection is regarded as the most suitable approach to protecting microgrids 1, 5 . It involves changes in the fault response of protection relays based on the system operating state and conditions 5,6 . This is commonly achieved by extending the functionality of existing traditional protection devices, such as inverse-time over-current relays, which constitutes a cost-effectiveness beneﬁt in the absence of specialized commercial microgrid relays 3 and the desire to easily integrate protection schemes into existing devices and substations with minimal capital expenditure 7 . Supported by years of operation in traditional power systems, over-current relays offer an economical and effective solution to protect the power system against faults. With the rise of microgrids, there is a growing interest to extend the capabilities of over-current relays to enable adaptive protection 8 10 . This requires the development ofarXiv:2302.14126v1 eess.SY 27 Feb 2023 A Probabilistic Approach to Adaptive Protection in the Smart Grid A P REPRINT methods to update over-current relay settings in response to changes in the grid, while maintaining both selectivity and sensitivity 11 . Selectivity refers to the relay s ability to precisely locate and classify faults to isolate the smallest possible faulty section of the power system, while sensitivity refers to the ability to promptly and accurately detect faults to quickly clear them. Recent studies have explored the use of data-driven techniques, including machine learning algorithms, to leverage the growing amount of data generated in power systems in satisfying these protection requirements. Data-driven techniques have been applied to detecting faults 2, 12 , identifying the location, type, and phase of faults 13, 14 , and adjusting relay settings 15 . Based on the ﬁndings of these studies, it appears that data-driven techniques can offer several beneﬁts. Firstly, data-driven methods can enhance the accuracy of protection decisions, improving fault detection and classiﬁcation and reducing unnecessary tripping. For example, Mishra et al. 16 conducted a study where they compared the accuracy of fault detection in protection schemes based on decision trees and random forests with traditional over-current relays. Their study showed over 40 improvement in fault detection accuracy when leveraging the machine learning algorithms. Secondly, data-driven techniques can offer a scalable solution to adapting relay settings, signiﬁcantly reducing the need to manually identify system topology conﬁgurations and compute relay settings. For example, in centralized communication-based implementations, data-driven techniques have the potential to replace traditional relays, monitoring the entire power system and directly controlling circuit breakers 5 . We survey some of the literature applying data-driven techniques to adaptive protection in Section 2. Data-driven techniques, however, come with their own set of limitations and potential threats to protection reliability. Black-box algorithms, such as neural networks and random forests, while often highly accurate, cannot be easily veriﬁed or validated, making them a signiﬁcant risk for adoption in safety-critical applications such as protection. Some other algorithms such as decision trees, while more interpretable, may suffer from instability: inconsistent decisions resulting from small changes in input data. This instability can also make it difﬁcult to validate their decisions, thus undermining their feasibility for protection. To successfully integrate data-driven techniques into adaptive protection, it is crucial to ensure that the interpretability of the protection decisions is preserved. This will enable protection engineers to verify the decisions while simultaneously reducing potential threats to reliability. Additionally, adaptive protection schemes, which rely on real-time communication infrastructure such as peer-to-peer communication between relays or communication between a central protection management center and relays, may face potential threats to reliability due to network failure, latency, and cyberattacks 11, 17 . Although increased communication can lead to more accurate and informed protection decisions, the associated risks and threats must be carefully considered. To acquire beneﬁts of data-driven techniques and communication-based adaptive protection while reducing
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	IEEE PES 53RD NORTH AMERICAN POWER SYMPOSIUM, NOVEMBER 2021 1 The Risk of Hidden Failures to the United States Electrical Grid and Potential for Mitigation Arthur K. Barnes1, Adam Mate1, and Jose E. Tabarez1 Abstract Hidden failures present a noticeable impact to the reliability of the United States electrical grid. These hazards are responsible for protective device misoperations and can cause multiple-element contingencies across nearby components, greatly increasing the likelihood of cascading events. This paper provides an in-depth overview of the causes and risks of hidden failures and discusses methods for identifying critical locations where hidden failures could pose a risk of cascading failure, with the ultimate goal being to identify efﬁcient mitigation methods that can prevent their occurrence in protective relays. Index Terms power transmission, protection, centralized pro- tection, hidden failures, adaptive protection, cascading failures. I. I NTRODUCTION Research has shown that despite the recent slowdown in electrical load growth in the North American energy system, the occurrence of large-scale blackouts has not been reduced 1 . One contributor to blackouts is the presence of hidden failures in the electrical grid that result in a single fault turning into a multi-element contingency. As described by Elizondo et al. 2 , a hidden failure is deﬁned as a relay that is misconﬁgured or faulty such that it will cause the inappropriate removal of system assets during an event (e.g., an out-of- zone fault). It can be stated that hidden failures in protective relaying present a risk of cascading failures to the entire grid. Hidden failures are considered to occur when protection activates on account of a misconﬁguration or internal failure, resulting in an inappropriate removal of system assets during an event (e.g., an out-of-zone fault) 2 , 3 . For the most part, hidden failures are synonymous with misoperations and are a consequence of biasing a protection system towards dependability (i.e., always clearing a fault on the protected element) versus security (i.e., never misoperating when a fault has not occurred on the protected element) 4 . However, the failure of local protection to operate for an in-zone fault, triggering remote backup protection to remove additional system assets, can also be considered a hidden failure 5 . Of particular concern are hidden failures that cause the loss of a set of critical assets, resulting in a severe loss of load or a cascading failure event, which in turn could lead to prolonged outages and expensive damage. While the main cause of power outages remains natural dis- asters (e.g., extreme weather, forest ﬁres, earthquakes) 1 , it Manuscript submitted: Jul. 15, 2021. Current version: Oct. 5, 2021. 1The authors are with the Advanced Network Science Initiative at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA. Email: fabarnes, amate, jtabarez g lanl.gov. LA-UR-21-26802. Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.has been demonstrated that hidden failures present a noticeable impact to the reliability of the United States electrical grid. A number of blackouts are attributed to hidden failures, including the 1977 New York blackout and the 1995 southern Idaho event (in which a line incorrectly tripped on account of a fault on a parallel line, resulting in a subsequent overload trip of a third parallel line, requiring the shed of several GW loads on account of an underfrequency event) 6 . It is important to mention that hidden failures (including those that cause cascading failures) are responsible for an estimated 10 rate of misoperations across protective device operations 7 and 70 of n 2contingencies are caused by relay misoperations 8 . Additionally, while the electrical grid was designed to be robust to n 1contingencies, hidden failures can cause multiple-element contingencies for which the risk of load loss or cascading events is much higher 5 . The contributions of this paper include the following: Sec- tion II presents a taxonomy of the causes of hidden failures, Section III describes methods for identifying critical locations where hidden failures could pose a risk of cascading failure, and Section IV describes methods for mitigation of hidden failures. Although methods in the literature exist for mitigating the impacts of cascading failures e.g., remedial action schemes 9 or the Reciprocal Altruism method 10 this paper speciﬁcally focuses on methods to reduce the likelihood of protective misoperations caused by hidden failures. II. C AUSES OF HIDDEN FAILURES There are several main causes of hidden failures: relay hard- ware failures, bad electrical connections, incorrect settings, inappropriate design or application of protective schemes, and operator errors 5 , 8 , 11 , 12 . Defects in protection systems (e.g., current transformers and voltage transformers, wiring, protective relays, communications systems, circuit breakers) can cause a misoperation during external faults, under-voltages, overloads, switching events, transformer en- ergization, or reverse power ﬂows 2 , 6 , 13 . According to Tamronglak 12 , relays that can experi- ence hidden failures include: directional comparison blocking and unblocking relays, permissive overreaching and under- reaching transfer trip relays, Zone 2 and Zone 3 distance relays, directional overcurrent ground relays, and differential relays. It is notable that many of these relays include pilot protection, a complex protection with an increased number of potential failure modes 14 , 15 . The operation of some common protection schemes and causes of hidden failure for these schemes are discussed below.arXiv:2107.03439v2 eess.SY 31 Dec 2021 IEEE PES 53RD NORTH AMERICAN POWER SYMPOSIUM, NOVEMBER 2021 2 Directional Comparison Blocking (DCB) Relays In a DCB relaying scheme, the line is protected by two directional distance relays on either end for line-line faults and directional overcurrent relays for line-ground faults 4 , 12 , 15 . There is a bidirectional channel along the line by which each relay can send a blocking signal preventing the other from operating. An important feature of this scheme is that the channel is only transmitting the blocking signal if a relay detects an external fault. It is therefore biased towards dependability in that the breakers on either end of the line can operate if the communications channel is inoperable. Breaker
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Towards carbon neutral scientific societies: A case study with the International Adsorption Society Anne Streb,1,2 Ryan Lively,3 Philip Llewellyn,4 Akihiko Matsumoto,5 Marco Mazzotti,1 Ronny Pini,6 Benoit Coasne7, 1 Separation Processes Laboratory, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, Zurich 8092, Switzerland 2 Climeworks AG, Zurich 8050, Switzerland 3 School of Chemical Biomolecular Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA 4 TotalEnergies, One Tech, CSTJF -Pau, France 5 Department of Applied Chemistry and Life Science, Toyohashi University of Technology, 1 -1, Hibarigaoka, Tempaku -cho, Toyohashi, Aichi, 441 -8580, Japan 6 Department of Chemical Engineering, Imperial College London, London, UK 7 Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, LIPhy, France To whom correspondence should be addressed: benoit.coasne univ -grenoble -alpes.fr With increasing concerns over climate change, scientists must imperatively acknowledge their share in CO 2 emissions.1,2 Considering the large emissions associated with scientific traveling especially international conferences initiatives to mitigate such impact are blooming.2-4 With the COVID -19 pandemic shattering our notion of private professional interactions,5-7 the moment should be seized to reinvent science conferences and collaborations with a model respectful of the environment. Yet, despite e fforts to reduce the footprint of conferences, there is a lack of a robust approach based on reliable numbers (emissions, carbon offsetting removals, etc.) to accompany this shift of paradigm. Here, considering a representative scientific society, the Inte rnational Adsorption Society,8 we report on a case study of the problem: making conferences carbon neutral while respecting the needs of scientists. We first provide a quantitative analysis of the CO 2 emissions for the IAS conference in 2022 related to acc ommodation, catering, flights, etc. Second, we conduct two surveys probing our community view on the carbon footprint of our activities. These surveys mirror each other, and were distributed two years before and in the aftermath of our triennial conference (also corresponding to pre post COVID times). By combining the different parts, we propose ambitious recommendations to shape the future of conferences. As the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports increasingly pessimistic scenarios f or Earth s surface temperature by the end of the century9, there is an increasing drive to drastically decrease our greenhouse gas emissions both at the individual and collective levels. For many of us, such efforts already translate into small practical climate -positive actions in our daily life. Moreover, the fact that emissions from professional activities can largely surpass those from the private sphere has resulted in action to decrease CO 2 emissions in all fields relevant to the primary, secondary, tertiary, and quaternary sectors. For quite some time, many professional sectors have considered themselves as role models owing to the limited environmental impact of their activities. This is the case of the science and research field, which has conside red its activities as almost carbon neutral, in stark contrast to the industrial and transportation sectors. In the last few years, by analyzing their carbon footprint, many academic and industrial scientific communities have recognized the severe impact o f science -related traveling to attend conferences and to visit collaborators.10-13 For some of these communities, acknowledging such negative impact is perceived as paradoxical, because their activities are specifically devoted to developing technologies t hat mitigate climate change and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This is the case of the International Adsorption Society (IAS), which serves in the present paper as the model for a real case study to identify options to make carbon neutral scientific so cieties compatible with cutting -edge innovative research. With its activities centered on adsorption technologies to design processes for environmental, health and energy applications, the IAS is at the forefront of research and development on carbon captu re and storage. Our international society, which gathers a few hundred researchers and engineers both from academia and industry, is strongly committed to reducing its carbon footprint as witnessed by the appointment of an IAS working group on carbon neutr ality as early as 2019. While evidence exists on the excessive carbon footprint of scientific conferences, solving the problem of such large CO 2 emissions cannot be as simple as making all scientific conferences on -line or continuing business as usual while financially compensating through available carbon offsets. The solution to this complex equation lies in finding the balance so as the undisputable benefits of scientific interactions are weighed against their associated CO 2 emissions. On the one han d, any optimal, viable solution needs to accurately account for the carbon footprint of scientific interactions (e.g. conferences, collaborations, visiting programs). On the other hand, it must consider the benefits of such exchanges on the quality of sci entific outcomes. One example is the stringent need for the generation of the younger scientists to meet physically with each other and with their more senior colleagues to form efficient professional networks for the next decades. The quantification of the carbon footprint of scientific and engineering research needs to rely on a robust and transparent strategy. Unfortunately, there is a lack of consolidated datasets and best practices, despite several interesting initiatives having already originated in other communities. To fill this gap, this contribution proposes a rational and transparent approach based on the following two -step strategy. First, considering that the IAS carbon footprint is largely dominated by its international conference held every three years, we present a robust CO 2 emission assessment based on accurate attendance numbers and cross -checking of data from different reliable sources. Second, we analyze the results from two surveys that were distributed to assess the opinion of the IAS community regarding its carbon footprint and conferencing habits. While the first survey was distributed in summer 2020, the second survey was sent and analyzed in the aftermath of our latest international conference in Broomfield, USA in May 2022. By com paring the answers to the two surveys, which are analyzed in the light of our CO 2 emissions assessment, we are in the position to formulate practical recommendations with the goal to establish a transparent strategy to address this intrinsically
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	A Resource Allocation Scheme for Energy Demand Management in 6G-enabled Smart Grid Shafkat Islam ,Ioannis Zografopoulosy,Md Tamjid Hossainz,Shahriar Badshax,Charalambos Konstantinouy Purdue University,yCEMSE Division, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) zUniversity of Nevada, Reno,xBosch Engineering-North America E-mail: islam59 purdue.edu, mdtamjidh nevada.unr.edu, shahriar.badsha us.bosch.com fioannis.zografopoulos, charalambos.konstantinou g kaust.edu.sa Abstract Smart grid (SG) systems enhance grid resilience and efﬁcient operation, leveraging the bidirectional ﬂow of energy and information between generation facilities and prosumers. For energy demand management (EDM), the SG network requires computing a large amount of data generated by massive Internet- of-things sensors and advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) with minimal latency. This paper proposes a deep reinforce- ment learning (DRL)-based resource allocation scheme in a 6G- enabled SG edge network to ofﬂoad resource-consuming EDM computation to edge servers. Automatic resource provisioning is achieved by harnessing the computational capabilities of smart meters in the dynamic edge network. To enforce DRL-assisted policies in dense 6G networks, the state information from multiple edge servers is required. However, adversaries can poison such information through false state injection (FSI) attacks, exhausting SG edge computing resources. Toward addressing this issue, we investigate the impact of such FSI attacks with respect to abusive utilization of edge resources, and develop a lightweight FSI detection mechanism based on supervised classiﬁers. Simulation results demonstrate the efﬁcacy of DRL in dynamic resource allocation, the impact of the FSI attacks, and the effectiveness of the detection technique. Index Terms Smart grid, automation, energy system, DQN, edge computing, ﬁne grained classiﬁcation, false state injection. I. I NTRODUCTION Signiﬁcant efforts have been made towards the digitization of the power grid. Smart grid (SG) functionalities enhance grid resilience and sustainability while enabling the efﬁcient utilization of renewable and distributed resources, outgrowing its previous hierarchical and centralized nature (e.g., bulk coal, oil, etc. generation facilities). Leveraging concepts such as the Internet-of-Things (IoT), advanced metering infrastructure (AMI), demand-response schemes, and 6G connectivity, the power grid is transitioning from a unidirectional power archi- tecture to a composite information and power network. It is predicted that 530 GWs of distributed generation will be integrated into the power grid by 20241. The rapid rate of renewable and distributed penetration, the intermittency of such resources, and the timing constraints introduced by the energy market operation (e.g., demand-response schemes) require real-time administration. Centrally processing such information and coordinating with the SG end-nodes be- comes time consuming (e.g., network latency) and resource- 1www.fortunebusinessinsights.comdemanding (CPU resources, computer systems, information management, etc.). 6G technologies and edge computing can provide solutions to the challenging problems of optimally predicting, allocating, and economically deploying available power system resources 1 , 2 . Leveraging the deployed computational power of embedded systems, controllers, AMI and IoT at the edge of the power grid, can alleviate the number of data that have to be centrally processed, and curtail unnecessary network data trafﬁc (e.g., end-node to central server). Furthermore, using 6G, communication can be accelerated, allowing for more sophisticated schemes and ensuring resilient real-time operation. The importance of 6G technologies to manage resources in heavily interconnected and reconﬁgurable SG deployments is the epicenter of many research works. For instance, the authors in 3 , demonstrate the gravity of reliable wireless connections between edge devices in time-critical operations, as well as the potential consequences if such requirements (i.e., availability and reliability) are not met. To moderate the computational burden of dense SG networks, researchers have proposed ofﬂoading schemes leveraging the capabilities of edge nodes (ENs). In 4 , a collaborative ofﬂoading strategy is proposed where after a central server has received all the expected requests, instead of evaluating them locally, the requests are fragmented and forwarded to EN devices for processing. In 5 , task ofﬂoading scheme is formulated as a joint optimization problem, where the communication (AMI) and the compu- tation (ENs) devices are cooperatively optimized. Q-learning approach has been explored to assist the optimal ofﬂoading decision making process 6 . Using stochastic optimization, the ofﬂoading problem can be addressed, enabling the efﬁcient operation of demand-response mechanism in decentralized SG topologies with renewable penetration 7 . The advanced interconnection and reconﬁgurability of SGs, the multitude of EN device types, and the transformation of the traditional power grid into a network of information , introduces data security and reliability implications 8 10 . More speciﬁcally, the power grid utilities leverage the private and conﬁdential operational data (generated by hundreds of in- terconnected sensors, intelligent electronic devices (IEDs), dis- tributed energy resources (DERs), etc.) of the modern bidirec- tional SGs to detect potential cyber physical anomalies (e.g.,arXiv:2207.00154v2 cs.NI 5 Nov 2022 Fig. 1: 6G-enabled edge computing based SG network. sudden power ﬂuctuations), perform state estimation, fault or disturbance analysis, islanding detection, load modeling, fore- casting, etc. 11 13 . Therefore, any stealthy cyberattacks by porting false state injection (FSI) into the system or by delaying and manipulating in-transit data may jeopardize the grid s stable operation 14 17 . In this work, to address both the computationally demanding resource allocation problem and the security requirements of densely interconnected SG systems, we propose the use of deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms to identify optimal solutions to the time- sensitive energy demand management (EDM) problem. We utilize the computational power of ENs to deal with the advanced complexity of distributed optimal resource alloca- tion, along with 6G technologies that can provide high-speed data throughput, minimal latency, and reliable communications that provide high quality of service in real-time applications. We also investigate the performance of DRL policy in the presence of FSI attacks and develop ﬁne-grained FSI detection techniques based on supervised classiﬁers. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION A. 6G-enabled Edge Computing based Smart Grid Network Fig. 1 illustrates an edge-computing architecture for the residential SG system deployed in urban or suburban areas. In this system, we assume that renewable energy, i.e., solar photovoltaic panels, serves as an alternative energy source in addition to the traditional fuel-based system. The EDM scheme is installed on the edge servers, and we assume that each smart meter is under the coverage
__label__energy	SIZE ОF NANOOBJECTS IN OIL AND GAS SPECIES AND MATERIALS WITH POSITRON ANNIHILATION SPECTROSCOPY V. I. Grafutin1, E. P. Prokopev 2, L. V. Elnikova3 A. I. Alikhanov Institute for Theoretical and Experimental Physics (ITEP), B. Cheremushkinskaya street, 25, Moscow117218, Russian Federation, tel: 7(499)123-63-97 fax: 7(499)127-08-33 e-mails: 1grafutin itep.ru, 2eugeny.prokopjev yandex.ru , epprokopiev mail.ru , 3elnikova itep.ru ABSTRACT: The analytical method to determine geometry and size of nano-scale defects in oil and gas species and materials is proposed. The modeling is carried out with the parameters of the positron spectra in the angular distribution method of positron annihilation spectroscopy, and is based on the free electron approximation. From the annihilation decay kinetics, it is possible to express the trapping velocity of parapositronium in pores via intensities of the positronium components and to define the concentration and radii of pores in a porous layer. As the result, size and the concentration of micro-porous cylindrical nano-objects in the silicon samples are estimated. It is known 1 that positrons are effective probes for the free volume of nano-objects of angstrom and nanometer sizes in metals, alloys, semiconductors, and porous systems. In the Projects for research of oil and gas species and materials (http: www.portalus.ru modules science data files prokopiev Prokopev-Pos-OilPor.pdf ), the determination of size of nano-objects is very important. The Project requires comprehensive studies of the defect structure of oil and gas species and materials containing nanometer-sized cavities (vacancies, vacancy clusters, pores) with the different methods of positron annihilation spectroscopy (PAS). It connects the experimentally measured parameters of the annihilation spectra and characteristics of nano-defects (type, size, concentration) in these materials. The behavior of radiating nanometer defects plays a crucial role in industrial materials. This study contributes into the basic knowledge on the porous structure of these materials, the development of theoretical models describing the behavior and properties of nano-scale defects. PAS is one of the most effective methods for the determination the average size R of cylindrical and spherical nano- objects (the free volume of pores, cavities, voids), their average concentration N and the chemical composition 1-3 . So, PAS is a suitable instrument to study of technologically important nano- materials, including porous systems and some defective materials. PAS allows us to determine the average values NRVrad3)3 4(π , a percentage of a free space, formed in materials for electronic and nuclear technology in their operations. We discuss the idea to learn correlations between the values radV and electrical, mechanical and other properties of materials, such as the permeability and the mechanical stress fracture. A brief review of experimental studies of nano-objects in semiconductors and steels of various sorts, which are used as structural materials in modern nuclear reactors 1 , and the research of oil and gas species and materials, may confirm these assumptions. The experimental methods for the determination of the strength and brittleness of metals and alloys irradiated with neutrons play a significant role. It is particularly important to investigate critical defects, strongly violating mechanical and radiation properties of materials. Basing on the model of a moving particle in a plane limited by a round cylindrical absolutely impenetrable wall 2-4 , we got the more correct formulas for the radii cR of cylindrical (the index c ) and the spherical (symbol sp ) nano-pores in units of the width of a component of an angular distribution of annihilation photons (ADAP) 2 1θ, and the energies cE1 and spE of the basic para-positronium ( p-Ps) state, annihilated in pores of porous silicon, aluminium dioxide, silicon, as well as in metals and alloys irradiated with protons, neutrons and other charged particles: 2 1 10 2 10 )(58.30 , 1.21 eVEARmradAR cccθ, (1) 2 1 10 2 10 )(85.18 , ) (6.16 eVEARmradAR spspspθ. (2) Here R and 2 1θ are expressed in Å and mrad , respectively. We note, that in formulas (1), (2) and further in (5), (6), the numerical quantity are given in Å , while the value 2 1θ in mrad is actually dimensionless (Tab.1). Tab.1. Parameters of investigated samples of porous silicon, features of their production and characteristic of the ADAP spectra 1 Sample Sample characteristics Ig2 Sg1 Ssum Ig1 Sg1 Ssum Ip Sp Ssum Note 164(1) Monocrystall 0.335 0.03 10.665 0.03 5 PR86 Pore Si, 111 , SDB-0 .03, h 360-370 mc, HF:C 2H5OH 2:1, J 20 mA сm20.015 0.0030.493 0.0520.492 0.044Porosity, 45 3 In the Table 1, h is the thickness of silicon plates, 111 is their crystallographic orientation, SDB-0.03 is the mark of silicon plates alloyed by B with the specific resistance 0.03 Ω сm, Ig Sgi Ssum (i 1,2) is the intensity of Gaussian components, and IP Sp Ssum is the intensity of parabolic components in the A DAP spectra (Ssum is the total area of an experimental A DAP spectrum, and Sgi and Sp are areas of Gaussian and parabolic components in a given spectrum, respectively). J is the current density. For the experimental value 8.02 1 θ mrad in porous silicon (Tab.1), one has received the average radius of cylindrical pores 4.26 R Å 3 nm. Their concentration in a porous layer has obtained equal to 13106.5 cm-3. The approach of spherical pores gives rise to 75.20 spR Å 2 nm, and 14103.1 spNсm-3. A consideration of the kinetic scheme of annihilation disintegrations and the transformation of the positron and Ps states in a porous layer enables to receive a connection between their trapping velocity trk by pores and the intensity components 2gI 1 : ,2crgtrIkλ s-1 , (3) where 10108.0 scrλλ s-1 is the velocity of the annihilation disintegration of p-Ps, the value 015.02 gI (Tab. 1) in 1 and crλ in the formula (3); we receive the average p-Ps trapping velocity by pores 8102.1 trk s-1. The trapping velocity trk can be received, in turn, basing on the well-known expression trtrtrNkνσ , s-1 . (4) Here trσis denoted the average value of the cross-section of the trapping Ps and a positron by pores (defects); v is the velocity of
__label__energy	XXX-X- XXXX- XXXX -X XX XX.00 20XX IEEE Statistical Assessment of Renewable Energy Generation in Optimiz ing Qatar Green Buildings Sara Zainaa, Shima Sadaf b, Ansaruddin Kunjuc, Mohammad Merajb, Devrim Unal d, and Farid Touati b a Department of Architecture and Urban Planning, Qatar Universit y b Department of Electrical Engineering, Qatar University c Depatment of Chemical Engineering, Qatar University d KINDI Center for Computing Research, Qatar University sara.zaina qu.edu.qaa, s.sadaf qu.edu.qa b, aa1203886 student.qu.edu.qac, meraj qu. edu.qab, dunal qu.edu.qad, and touatif qu.edu.qab Abstract The residential electrical energy scheduling of solar Photovoltaics (PV) is an important research area of the modern green buildings. On the demand side, factors such as building load, and the renewable PV energy resources are integrated t ogether as a nonl inear, indefinite and time varying complex system, which is very difficult to forecast and optimize. These energy sources are greatly depending on the climatic conditions. It further makes the residential building energy management complex . To addr ess this problem, we present statistical models for the effective utilization of the renewables and reducing the burden on the distribution network. The effect of weather parameters such as temperature, dust in the air, humidity and solar irradiat ion on the green buildings energy infrastructure is taken into account . The details are analyzed and presented in the manuscript. The real time data is analyzed in the SPSS software tool. The presented results show that the statistical models are necessary for the controller to take action for the efficient and reliable integration of the renewables. Keywords energy optimization, environment, sustainable, solar generation, load, weather conditions, residential I. INTRODUCTION Doha s rapid urbanization is at the center of efforts to prepare for the FIFA 2022 World Cup. The rapid increase of urbanization, modernization, and population has led to a significant increase in the electricity demand within the country 1 . It is part of Qatar National Vision 2030 and the Qatar National Development Strategy II (NDS2 2017- 2022), targeting the transformation of the country to reduce the per capita consumption rate and secure the demand for electric power to enhance sustainable development. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), by the year 2050, 11 of the global energy demand will be provided by the photovoltaics (PV) leadin g to reduction of 2.3Gt of carbon dioxide emissions per year. IEA estimated that existing buildings are responsible for more than 40 of the world s total primary energy consumption and for 24 of global carbon dioxide emissions 2 . Light of day in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region is about 4449h year in which 70 of it is sunshine, results in receiving 6kWh m 2 day 2 . Large -scale PV plants are located in desert land where full sunlight is available for t he PV energy conversion. However, the high temperatures, very high relative humidity, dusty atmosphere and high solar radiation levels, may significantly decrease the production of PV energy which can vary from one place to the other within a geog raphical area. In order to understand the power consumption, PV generation and storage of the energy via batteries on weather conditions (climate change) vice versa. Thus, it is necessary to analyze the effect of one another and predict the accurate behavior of the load and the power distribution system 3 . Figure 1. Electricity Grid Residential with PV and Weather Conditions. 4 Atmosphere temperature is the key fa ctor, which influences the energy demand. In countries with high average temperatures such as Qatar, most of the electricity consumption is due to cooling. It is well known that during hot days the power consumption is increased leading to more transmissio n and distribution losses and more peak tariffs. Although, the energy demand is dependent on the temperature, still the producers or researchers ar e not well informed with the temperature variations on energy consumption and energy storage. There is very l ittle information about the relationship between the energy demand and the humidity 5 . The growing need of real-time energy management and automation systems resulted in green building energ y management as one of the recent areas of attract ion 6 . Distributed PV energy generat ion has been economically and environmentally beneficial solution for the residential and commercial consumer s. In order to optimize the energy demand , the PV and the battery storage system has to be integrate d in a full control manner 7 . These storage and the utility grid are connected in independently in islanded mode, depending on their PV battery storage capacity and load consumption 8 - 9 . Besides, the relatio n among energy demand, PV generation and weather conditions is country dependent because, it depends on the geographical location, population, urbanism, style of the living and type of building code. So most of the published articles are country specific a nd are not generalized or universal models. The studies 10 - 11 , developed error correction and estimation model for the energy consumption of Taiwan . In 12 - 13 , authors studied about the variation of the weather data on electricity consumptio n in china and Hong Kong. In 14 , authors found that, for small change in t he climatic condition , there is huge change in the power consumption of the residential buildings in the U nited States. Saengngam 15 and Parkoom et al. 16 used multiple linear regression model to study the impact of the climate change on energy demand in Thailand. Wangpattarapong et al. studied the impact of climatic and economic factors on re sidential electricity consumption of the Bangkok Metropolis 17 . In 18 , found that a long- run residential demand function for electricity and forecasting for the future load demand in Greece is s ensitive to the actual income, price level, and weather conditions . They used ordinal regression analysis. Valor et al. 19 found a strong correlation between daily air temperature and electricity load in Spain. Blázquez et al .
__label__energy	C19-TraNet: an empirical, global index-case transmission network of SARS-CoV-2 Vikram Singhyand Vikram Singh Centre for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Central University of Himahcal Pradesh, Dharamshala, India E-mail: vikramsingh cuhimachal.ac.in Abstract Originating in Wuhan, the novel coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has astonished health-care systems across globe due to its rapid and simultaneous spread to the neighboring and distantly located countries. To gain the systems level understanding of the role of global transmission routes in the COVID-19 spread, in this study, we have developed the ﬁrst, empirical, global, index-case trans- mission network of SARS-CoV-2 termed as C19-TraNet. We manually curated the travel history of country wise index-cases using government press releases, their oﬃcial social media handles and online news reports to construct this C19-TraNet that is a spatio-temporal, sparse, growing network comprising of 187nodes and 199edges and follows a power-law degree distribution. To model the growing C19-TraNet, a novel stochastic scale free (SSF) algorithm is proposed that accounts for stochastic addition of both nodes as well as edges at each time step. A peculiar connectivity pattern in C19-TraNet is observed, characterized by a fourth degree polynomial growth curve, that signiﬁcantly diverges from the average random connectivity pattern obtained from an ensemble of its 1;000SSF realizations. Partitioning the C19-TraNet, using edge 1arXiv:2006.15162v1 q-bio.PE 26 Jun 2020 betweenness, it is found that most of the large communities are comprised of a hetero- geneous mixture of countries belonging to diﬀerent world regions suggesting that there are no spatial constraints on the spread of disease. This work characterizes the super- spreaders that have very quickly transported the virus, through multiple transmission routes, to long range geographical locations alongwith their local neighborhoods. Keywords SARS-CoV-2, COVID-19, infectiousdisease, globaltransmissionroutes, spatio-temporalnet- work, pandemic Introduction Recent outbreak of COVID-19 has been emerged due to a new species of human infecting coronaviruses (HCovs), namely, SARS-CoV-21that was isolated from a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, capital city of Hubei Province, China2in December 2019. It rapidly spread across the globe and was declared as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) on January 30, 20203, and was later declared a pandemic on March 11, 2020 by the World Health Organization (WHO)4. As of June 25, 2020, more than 9:1million conﬁrmed cases, and more than 0:47million deaths have been reported due to COVID-19 in 216countries territories5. The outbreak is attributed to a zoonotic transmission of SARS- CoV-2 from primordial or intermediate host to humans, it could have further propagated through human-to-human contacts6,7. Globalization of transport systems viaair, sea and land routes has resulted in drastic decrease in journey time alongwith an unprecedented increase in transport volume of passengers. Although global transport has played a pivotal role in world s economic growth, it has also facilitated the disease causing agents to move to remote and otherwise unreachable places very quickly8, and therefore has enhanced the potential of any endemic to become a pandemic9. 2 In the past ﬁve centuries the world has witnessed several major pandemics, like, plague10 (causedby Yersinia pestis ),cholera11(Vibrio cholera ),inﬂuenza12(inﬂuenzavirus),HIV AIDS13 (HIV), SARS14(SARS-CoV) etc., that had badly aﬀected most of the world population as well as economy. All these pandemics had been originated in localized regions and had dif- ferent means of human-to-human transmission, however, they were transported to distant geographical locations by human movements viaair, land or sea transport15 18. There are many other emerging, reemerging infections, with varying consequences in terms of sever- ity, morbidity, mortality, which the world continues to confront19. Diﬀerent epidemiological strategies, like, modeling disease dynamics, spread, mitigation and other epidemiological parameters of diﬀerent outbreaks have been applied successfully in the past20 22. Network theoretic approaches have also been successfully utilized to gain understanding about the topology of diﬀerent epidemiological disease transmission networks23 26. Topological un- derstanding of infection transmission networks provides us critical insights about infection growth and distribution. Furthermore, knowledge of potential transmission routes allows us to devise eﬀective control strategies to contain infection27. Due to lack of speciﬁc medication for SARS-CoV-2, non-pharmaceutial containment based intervention methods have become indispensable tools to grapple with the infection. A large number of studies are being published to investigate important metrics, like, CFR, basic reproduction rate ( R0), spread kinetics etc., however, a comprehensive study inves- tigating the transmission routes of the virus across countries is still lacking. The actual structure (topology) underlying the global spread of the SARS-CoV-2 is also less explored. To prevent virus re-invasion in the countries territories regions (from where the virus has been eradicated) considering large incubation period of SARS-CoV-2, at this stage of out- break, it is crucial to gain insights about the short range human-to-human contacts as well as long range geographically separated country-to-country global transmission pathways. It may have implications in making SARS-CoV-2 prevention policies as well as better prepare ourselves to ﬁght against future outbreaks. In this study, we have constructed an empirical 3 global transmission network of SARS-CoV-2 and explored its topological space to explore the mechanism of global spread of infection. Increased topological knowledge will provide us the understanding about the epidemiological dynamics of the virus invading remote geographical locations. Methods Network construction In this work, we have constructed the index-case empirical global transmission network of SARS-CoV-2 by manually going through the daily situation reports published by WHO, government press releases of various countries, their oﬃcial social media handles (facebook, twitter), and other online news reports providing relevant information regarding the travel history of the patients for a period of 84days ranging from January 13, 2020 to April 5, 2020. The transmission network is a dynamic network having the potential to grow on daily basis. Countries comprise the nodes of this network, while infected index-case individuals carrying the infection from a given country Xto some other country Yconnect these two countries with a directed link with Xas the source node and Yas the target node. The direction of an edge indicate the ﬂow of virus infection across borders. The connection between two countries have been placed on the basis of travel history
__label__energy	Local energy communities optimization considering cost and greenhouse gases minimization S. Barja-Martineza , M. Arag u es-Pe nalbaa, A. Sumpera, R. Villafafila-Roblesa aCentre d Innovaci o Tecnol ogica en Convertidors Est atics i Accionaments (CITCEA-UPC) Corresponding author: sara.barja upc.edu Abstract Local Energy Communities (LECs) facilitate consumer involvement in local electricity generation and distribution, offering a significant opportunity for society to participate in the energy transition. This paper presents the optimization of a renewable energy community in Spain, consisting of four office buildings, a collectively owned centralized photovoltaic system, and a Li-ion battery storage system. The case study assesses the performance and feasibility of the proposed solutions. The results indicate a 6 reduction in emissions and a 20 reduction in electricity costs, demonstrating the potential of LECs to enhance energy security by saving costs and emission while mitigating the vulnerability of local areas to power outages and disruptions. Keywords: renewable energy community, greenhouse gas emission, cost minimization 1 Introduction The generation and use of energy account for more than 75 of the EU s greenhouse gas emissions. To achieve the goal of decarbonizing the economy and reaching net-zero emissions by 2050, the European Green Deal Commission (2019) proposes various objectives related to buildings and the residential sector: Enhancing the energy efficiency of buildings. Ensuring a secure and affordable EU energy supply. Prioritizing energy efficiency, improving the energy performance of our buildings and developing a power sector based largely on renewable sources. These objectives can be achieved through a digitalized energy sector based largely on renewable distributed energy resources. Local Energy Communities (LECs) encourage the participation of consumers in the electricity generation and distribution at local level, providing an opportunity for society to be involved in the energy transition. According to the European Commission, a LEC is an open and voluntary association that combines non-commercial aims with environmental and social community objectives. The aim is to promote community- driven and decentralized electricity generation, rather than central generation managed by a small number of large power plants, as has been the case until now. To take advantage of user participation in local energy communities, electrification at the user s premises is essential; for instance, replacing a conventional natural gas boiler with heat pumps for space heating. Additionally, by increasing electrification, consumers and energy communities can offer flexibility to the energy system through demand response and storage programs. The Instituto para la Diversificaci on y Ahorro de la Energ ıa (IDAE) in Spain, outlines the benefits of local energy communities profiling, including: IDAE (2023) Providing citizens with fair and easy access to local renewable energy resources and the opportunity to benefit from these investments. Empowering users to take control and greater responsibility for meeting their energy needs. Creating investment opportunities for citizens and local businesses. Offering communities to generate income, increasing the acceptance of local renewable energy development. Enabling the integration of renewable energy into the system through demand-side management. Environmental benefits. Social benefits. The creation of local employment and promotion of social cohesion and equity. 1arXiv:2504.20973v1 eess.SY 29 Apr 2025 The increasing growth and interest in LECs is primarily due to rising electricity prices and an increasing awareness of climate change in society, combined with the growing availability of affordable, small-scale distributed energy resources (DERs). Legislative changes and government subsidies have also helped to accelerate the creation of energy communities and self-consumption generation. It is a fact that prosumers and their collective forms will play a key role in the forthcoming years by empowering consumers, boosting energy efficiency, building interconnected energy systems that allow peer-to-peer energy trading and better-integrated grids to support renewable energy sources. This contributes to a fairer transition to climate neutrality that allows citizens to take ownership of energy consumption and production. 2 LEC regulation The Clean Energy Package (CEP) Commission and for Energy (2019) introduced by the European Commission has established a legislative framework for the operation of Local Energy Communities across Europe, which aims to facilitate citizens participation in energy markets, evolving from traditional passive consumers to prosumers. A report made by the European Commission about community renewable energy in Europe confirms this transition, stating that by 2030 energy communities could own 17 of installed wind capacity and 21 of solar Europe-wide. By 2050, almost half of EU households are expected to produce clean energy European Commision. Caramizaru and Uihlein (2020). The CEP introduces two types of energy communities: Citizen Energy Community (CEC). The Internal Electricity Market Directive (EU) 2019 944 DIR (2019) introduces CEC as a legal entity that is based on voluntary and open participation and is effectively controlled by members or shareholders that are natural persons, local authorities, including municipalities, or small enterprises. CEC constitute a new type of entity due to their membership structure, governance requirements and purpose. Renewable Energy Community (REC). The Renewable Energy Directive (EU) 2018 2001 DIR (2018) de- fines a REC as a legal entity that, in accordance with the applicable national law, is based on open and voluntary participation, is autonomous, and is effectively controlled by shareholders or members that are located in the proximity of the renewable energy projects that are owned and developed by that legal entity. These two EU directives establish a legal framework for collective citizen participation in the energy system. The definition of CEC is similar to REC, but there are some fundamental distinctions. RECs have a specific focus on renewable sources and should be located close to renewable energy projects, while CEC has no such restriction. Another difference is that an energy community can only be called a REC if its activity is based on renewable energy sources, while a CEC may use renewable or conventional sources Biresselioglu, Limoncuoglu, Demir, Reichl, Burgstaller, Sciullo, and Ferrero (2021). For this article, a REC is presented. The main differences between the two types of energy communities are summarized in Table 1. Citizen Energy Commu- nityRenewable Energy Com- munity Members Natural persons, local authori- ties, small microenterprisesSame as CEC, but members main activity must not be de-
__label__energy	Improving electric power generation of a standalone wave energy converter via optimal electric load control LiGuo Wanga,b, MaoFeng Lina, Elisabetta Tedeschic,d, Jens Engstrme, Jan Isberge aSchool of Marine Engineering and Technology, Sun Yat-Sen University, 519082 ZhuHai, China bSouthern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory, 519082 ZhuHai, China cDepartment of Electric Power Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7034 Trondheim, Norway dDepartment of Industrial Engineering, University of Trento, Trento, Italy eDepartment of Electrical Engineering, Uppsala University, 75121 Uppsala, Sweden. Abstract This paper aims to investigate electric dynamics and improve electric power generation of an isolated wave energy converter that uses a linear permanent magnet generator as the power take-o system, excited by regular or irregular waves. This is of signi cant concern when considering actual operating conditions of an o shore wave energy converter, where the device will encounter di erent sea states and its electric load needs to be tuned on a sea-state-to-sea-state basis. To that end, a fully coupled uid-mechanical- electric-magnetic-electronic mathematical model and an optimization routine are developed. This proposed time-domain wave-to-wire model is used to simulate the hydrodynamic and electric response of a wave energy converter connected to speci c electric loads and also used in an optimization routine that searches optimal resistive load value for a wave energy converter under speci c sea states. Sample results are presented for a point-absorber type wave energy converter, showing that the electric power generation of a device under irregular waves can be signi cantly improved. Keywords: wave energy converter, wave power system, wave-to-wire model, linear permanent magnet generator, electric load optimization. 1. Introduction Ocean wave energy is a promising renewable source to contribute to supply the world s energy demand, with an estimated world-wide potential of 2 3TW 1 . Recent research on wave energy uti- lization started in the 1970s against the backdrop of the oil crisis, as reviewed in 2 . In past decades, nu- merous coastal countries, such as the U.K., China, Sweden, Norway, the U.S.A, France, Italy, Ireland, Japan and Australia, have been making consider- able e orts to develop wave energy conversion tech- nologies. As outcomes, various concepts and ap- proaches have been proposed to capture the energy carried by ocean waves, among them, the feasibil- ity of some devices were examined by analytical, numerical and experimental methods, as reviewed IAccpeted by Energy IIEmail address:wanglg7 mail.sysu.edu.cnin 1, 3 7 . Results indicate that, the energy car- ried by ocean waves can be e ectively captured and converted by wave energy converters (WECs) in a variety of ways. This energy can be used for di er- ent purposes, e.g., providing electricity, heating wa- ter, powering desalination plants or enabling trans- portation, with a minimal negative in uence on the environment. However, to date, the majority of those devices are at a pre-commercial stage, and most WECs that aim to provide electricity are o - grid standalone devices. A key performance indicator for an isolated full- scale WEC operated in open sea is the system e - ciency, as it determines the power performance and dominates the economic performance of a device. Considerable work has been conducted to improve system e ciency, by employing control strategies 8 10 for the power take-o (PTO) system or by optimizing geometric design of the primary capture system 11 18 . However, most endeavours so far Preprint submitted to Energy September 29, 2020arXiv:2009.12485v1 physics.app-ph 26 Sep 2020 have been limited to carrying out them indepen- dently, ignoring the coupling between subsystems or the losses, which are crucial for the accurate in- vestigation of electric dynamics and power perfor- mance of a WEC and to the accurate determination of optimal linear electric load that maximizes the generated power. More important, most of the de- veloped control strategies are intended to improve the power absorbed from ocean waves, rather than the electric power generated, which is not appropri- ate for the non-ideal cases, e.g, considering power transmission losses or non-ideal power take-o sys- tems. The numerical solution to address that is to develop a mathematical model that incorporates all the components, from ocean wave side to elec- tric grid or electric load side, whereas the physi- cal solution is to perform tank or open-sea experi- ments. Considering the high capital and time cost of physical experiments, numerical simulation with a time-domain mathematical model, referred to as thewave to wire model, is promising for study- ing system dynamics and energy losses, and identi- fying optimal electric loads. Additionally, wave-to- wire models can be used in model-based control of a WEC in regular and irregular waves, where the control strategies are used to improve device per- formance. Several wave-to-wire models have been proposed for di erent types of WECs (a classi cation of WECs is presented in Fig. 1). In 19 , two wave-to- wire models, including one with a variable-pressure hydraulic PTO and one with the constant-pressure con guration are presented. In 20 , a wave-to-wire model, where the radiation force memory term is re- placed by additional states using the Prony method in order to formulate the equation of motion into the ordinary di erential equation form, is presented for a WEC called SEAREV that employs a hy- draulic PTO. In 21 , a wave-to-wire time-domain model is used to simulate the mechanical, hydrody- namic, and electric response of an array of WECs, and the radiation force memory terms are replaced by the state-space methods. In 22 , a comprehen- sive numerical time-domain model is presented for an oscillating water column (OWC) WEC that uses a turbine, to provide accurate prediction of power generation, and a reduced-order model is presented in 23 . In 24 , a wave-to-wire model is proposed for a WEC called Lifesaver that employs a rotary per- manent magnet generator, and the key result from simulations is that when taking generator losses into account, the performance of reactive control isnot satisfactory. Recent reviews of the wave-to-wire work can be found in 9, 25 , where WEC control
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	arXiv:2307.02056v1 eess.SY 5 Jul 2023Energy Consumption of Electric Vehicles: Effect of Lateral Dynamics Simran Kumari1Susenjit Ghosh2Ashish R. Hota3Siddhartha Mukhopadhyay4 Abstract Current research on energy related problems such as eco-routing, eco-driving and range prediction for elect ric vehi- cles (EVs) primarily considers the effect of longitudinal d ynamics on EV energy consumption. However, real-world driving incl udes longitudinal as well as lateral motion. Therefore, it is imp ortant to understand the effects of lateral dynamics on battery ene rgy consumption. This paper conducts an analysis of the stated e ffect and validates its signiﬁcance through simulations. Speciﬁ cally, this study demonstrates that inclusion of the effect of late ral dynamics can improve accuracy and reliability of solutions in eco-routing, eco-driving and range prediction applicatio ns. Index Terms Energy ﬂow, Lateral dynamics, Energy aware driving, Electric vehicle I. I NTRODUCTION EV technology has seen a boom in recent years 1 . How- ever, state-of-art technology does not adequately address the issue of range anxiety among EV drivers. Various reasons leading to this issue are route, trafﬁc, driver and vehicle powertrain 2 . There have been several works related to EV energy consumption such as energy consumption prediction 3 , 4 , 5 , eco-driving 6 , 7 , 8 , eco-routing 9 , 10 and range prediction 2 , 11 , 12 in order to deal with range anxiety issue. EV energy consumption model is a fundamental block for these applications. State-of-art works use different approaches for develop- ing the same. Earlier work 13 presents quasi-steady back- ward power-based energy consumption model and computes regenerative braking efﬁciency. Additionally, 14 prese nts a dynamic model namely integrated battery-electric vehicl e model which include battery dynamics, motor dynamics as well as vehicle longitudinal dynamics. Reference 15 pres ents analysis of energy optimal driving for conventional as well as electric vehicles from optimal control perspective. It uti lizes Pontryagin s Minimum Principle (PMP) to obtain velocity proﬁle which minimizes wheel to distance and tank to distanc e energy consumption. In 16 , authors study motion control problems such as cruise distance maximization and travel ti me minimization utilizing electric vehicle power consumptio n model for an EV . Additionally, 8 models eco-driving probl em as battery energy consumption minimization problem over road segments. Furthermore given predicted drive cycle and current state of charge (SOC), 11 utilizes unscented kalm an This work is supported by Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India under Prime Minister Research Fellowship (PMRF) scheme and partially supported by the project HEV of SRIC IIT Kharagpur, jointly f unded by Tata Motors Limited (TML) and Govt. of India under UAY scheme . Authors are with Department of Electrical Engineering, Ind ian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur, India. Email:1simranjnr kgpian.iitkgp.ac.in, 2susenjit iitkgp.ac.in,3ahota ee.iitkgp.ac.in and4smukh ee.iitkgp.ac.in.ﬁlter (UKF) to predict SOC proﬁle through quasi-static powe r consumption model. Above works utilize longitudinal vehic le dynamics for modelling EV energy consumption. However, longitudinal vehicle dynamics does not capture realistic o n- road driving scenario due to various factors such as road ge- ometry, driver intention and trafﬁc behaviour. Realistic d riving includes coupled longitudinal and lateral motion. Therefo re, it is necessary to consider the effect of steering along with accelerator and brake pedal actuators to obtain more accura te estimate of energy consumption. Few recent literature have attempted to capture the effect of steering action on energy consumption. For given turning radius, 17 estimates lateral force for different values o f longitudinal velocity and ﬁnds the energy optimal velocity for achieving turning maneuver. Based on terminal optimal velocity values, transition velocity proﬁle between strai ght and curved road is calculated through a dynamic programming approach. In 18 , authors evaluate maximum cornering spee d at which tire force does not saturate and use this in hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) energy management. However, these works do not incorporate varying curvature road and lane changes which are common in real-life driving situations. I n order to address this research gap, we present an analysis of the effect of lateral dynamics on energy consumption of a rea r wheel driven (RWD) EV . Our analysis indicates that state of art energy consumption models based on longitudinal motion underestimate energy consumption in EVs, and motivates inclusion of lateral dynamics in such models. II. E NERGY FLOW IN AN ELECTRIC VEHICLE It is important to understand the ﬂow of energy from energy source to maneuver in order to analyse the effect of lateral dynamics on energy consumption. An EV powertrain generally consists of battery as energy storage, motor as propulsion source followed by ﬁxed gear differential with i ts axles attached to wheel. The ﬂow of energy for a RWD EV maneuvering from time t0totfis presented below. A. Energy consumed in maneuver Different quantities associated to EV dynamics during ma- neuver are shown in Fig. 1. The distance of center of gravity (COG) from front and rear axles are denoted by aandb respectively. Additionally, ldenotes half of track width of the EV and EV front wheels are steered by an angle δ. Longitudinal velocity, lateral velocity and yaw rate of COG of the EV are denoted by vx,vyand ψrespectively. Dependence on time is suppressed for better readability. Similarly, Fx,Fy Fig. 1: Schematic of different quantities associated with dual tra ck bicycle model. andMzdenote resultant longitudinal force, resultant lateral force at and resultant yaw moment about COG of the EV . The force and moment are generated by forces acting at wheel- road contact. When an EV is performing coupled longitudinal and lateral maneuver, utilized energy is given as: Ew,m integraldisplaytf t0Fxvxdt integraldisplaytf t0Fyvydt integraldisplaytf t0Mz ψdt. Here,Ew,m is energy utilized in maneuver. Assuming that camber angle of each wheel is zero, the relationship between forces and moment at vehicle level with wheel forces are: Fx (Fx wlr Fx wrr) (Fy wlf Fy wrf)sinδ (Fx wlf Fx wrf)cosδ Fa, Fy (Fy wlf Fy wrf)cosδ (Fy wlr Fy wrr) (Fx wlf Fx wrf)sinδ, Mz ( Fy wlr Fy wrr)b (Fy wlflsinδ Fy
__label__energy	Modeling, scientiﬁc computing and optimal control for renewable energy systems with storage Nicola Cantisani, Tobias K. S. Ritschel, Christian A. Thilker, Henrik Madsen and John Bagterp Jørgensen Abstract This paper presents models for renewable energy systems with storage, and considers its optimal operation. We model and simulate wind and solar power production using stochastic differential equations as well as storage of the produced power using batteries, thermal storage, and water electrolysis. We formulate an economic optimal control problem, with the scope of controlling the system in the most efﬁcient way, while satisfying the power demand from the electric grid. Deploying multiple storage systems allows ﬂexibility and higher reliability of the renewable energy system. I. I NTRODUCTION As society has progressively become industrialized and the use of energy has been increasing over the last century, greenhouse gas emissions have risen at an alarming pace, leading to global warming. The biggest contribution to green- house emissions is carbon dioxide, which is mainly released when burning fossil fuels. Consequently, we need to push development towards the use of renewable energy sources (RESs), such as wind and solar. However, solar and wind cannot be controlled and are highly volatile intermittent. Energy storage systems (ESSs) can be a solution to this problem, by serving as a buffer when the power production is low or absent, and making the energy more dispatchable 1 , 2 . Fig. 1 presents the main ESSs, providing information about the capacity, the discharging time at rated power, and the energy conversion efﬁciency. Even though ESSs with bigger capacities generally have lower energy efﬁciencies, they can support energy systems for longer periods of time. 30 50 100 95 95 80 1 sec1 min1 hour1 day1 month1 year Storage capacityDischarging time at rated powerCapacitorsFlywheelsBatteriesP2G ! P2F ! (P2A)P2F !Pumped HydroCompressed air 70 70 70 Thermal storage (latent) ChemicalThermalMechanicalElectrochemicalElectricalResidential HouseVillageCityMetropolitan areaThermal storage (sensible)P2G !! 1 kWh1 MWh1 GWh1 TWh Fig. 1. Characterization of the main energy storage systems (ESS) by storage capacity and discharging time at rated power (i.e. maximum output power). The percentages refer to energy efﬁciency. N. Cantisani, T.K.S. Ritschel, C.A. Thilker, H. Madsen, J.B. Jørgensen are with Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical University of Denmark, DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby, DenmarkIn this paper, we demonstrate mathematical modeling, simulation, and control of such systems. Based on the scientiﬁc literature, we model the uncertainty coming from the wind and the sun using stochastic differential equations. We express the power extraction from wind turbines as an optimization problem and present models for energy storage. We develop and propose simple models for battery and thermal storage, based on energy balance equations. Electrolysis is modeled using an electrochemical model, as in 3 , 4 . We will consider a hybrid energy system consisting of stochastic power production from wind and solar and the combination of battery, thermal storage, and hydrogen for energy storage. Ultimately, we want to achieve optimal operation of such a system. Therefore, an optimal control problem is formu- lated. The goal is to maximize the proﬁt generated from selling electricity, heat, and hydrogen, while assuring that the grid s power demand is always satisﬁed. Fig. 2 provides an overview of the entire energy system and the controllable power ﬂows. There is growing research on how to best control a renewable energy system with ESSs, where model predictive control (MPC) is often the preferred choice. 5 8 show how to control a system with one stochastic power source (wind or solar) and a single storage device, often a bat- tery. Integrating and controlling different storage solutions together is also attempted in the literature 9 , 10 . The control strategy proposed by the mentioned resources is based on maximizing the utilization of renewable resources. In this work, we explore the possibility of integrating and controlling three different ESSs, maximizing the economic revenue when such a system is interfaced with the market. The paper is structured as follows. Sections II and III Optimal control of the power flowBatteryThermal storage Electrolyzer H2 storageElectric grid marketHeat market Hydrogen marketFuel cellSteam turbine El prices demand Fig. 2. Overview of the controllable renewable energy system.arXiv:2212.08842v1 math.OC 17 Dec 2022 TABLE I PARAMETERS OF THE WIND SPEED MODEL 11 . Parameter Value Unit L 170.1 m ti 0.2 - s2p 4 600 m s 3 2 present models for power production from wind turbines and solar photovoltaic (PV) panels, respectively. In Sections IV, V and VI we model energy storage via battery, thermal storage and water electrolysis, respectively. Section VII in- troduces the optimal control problem. Finally, Section VIII presents a simulation of the system. II. W IND ENERGY In this section, we present control relevant simulation models for horizontal axis wind turbines (HAWT). The model consists of a model for the wind speed and one for the wind turbine. A. Wind speed model The wind speed is modeled as the sum of two components 11 : v(t) vm(t) vt(t): (1) vm(t)is the mean wind speed and vt(t)is the turbulent wind speed. Each part is modeled by a stochastic differential equation (SDE): dvt(t) pvm(t) 2Lvt(t)dt s pvm(t)3t2 i Ldw1(t);(2a) dvm(t) s2dw2(t): (2b) Lis the turbulence length and tiis the turbulence intensity. The parameter values for the wind speed model are reported in Table I. Notice that the mean wind speed can also be set and ﬁxed for simulation purposes. Observe that we do not consider the wind direction here, but it is relevant for a wind farm. B. Power extraction The available power in the wind is Pw(t) 1 2rpR2v(t)3: (3) ris the density of the air and Ris radius of the blade. The tip speed ratio is the ratio between the tangential speed at the tip of a blade of the turbine and the wind speed, i.e. l(t) RWr(t) v(t): (4) Wr(t)is the rotational speed of the rotor. The blade pitch angle, q, is deﬁned as the angle between the chord of the airfoil and the rotational plane. The extracted power by the wind turbine rotor is
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	Urban Haze and Photovoltaics I. M. Peters, S. Karth ik, L. Haohui, T. Buonassisi, A. Nobre Abstract: Urban haze is a multifaceted threat. Foremost a major health hazard, it also affects the passage of light through the lower atmosphere. In this paper , we present a study addressing the impact of haze on the performance pf photovoltaic installations in cities . Using long -term, high resolution field data from Delhi and Singapore we derive an empirical relation between reduction in insolation and fine part iculate matter (PM2.5) concentration. This approach enables a straightforward way to estimate air pollution related losses to photovoltaic power generation anywhere on the planet. For Delhi, we find that insolation received by silicon PV panels was reduced by 11.5 1.5 or 200 kWh m2 per year between 2016 and 2017 due to air pollution . We extended this analysis to 16 more cities around the planet and estimated insolation reductions ranging from 2 .0 (Singapore ) to 9 .1 (Beijing). Using spectrum data from Singapore , we projected how other photovoltaic technologies would be affected and found an additional reduction compared to silicon of between 23 relative for GaAs and 42 for a 1.64 eV perovskite material. Considering current installation targets and loc al prices for electricity, we project that annual losses in revenue from photovoltaic installations could exceed 20 million USD for Delhi alone, indicating that annual economic damage from air pollution to photovoltaic site operators and investors worldwid e could be billions of dollars . Motivation: In June 2013, three of the authors of this paper, I. M. Peters , L. Haohui and A. Nobre, lived in Singapore and were witnesses of the most severe haze event to have occurred in the city to date. For a couple of days, the pollutant standard index (PSI) jumped from its usual value of about 25 to over 200. The normally clear view from our office windows o n the sixth floor became filled with an impenetrable fog that swallowed up neighboring buildings. Face masks were s old out in a matter of hours . People were panicking . The event , in many ways, served as a wake -up call. Given our research focus on photovoltaic installations, we wanted to investigate the impact of haze on solar cell performance. From the reduced visibili ty it was evident that haze must have an effect , and we set out to quantify it. This paper summarize s our understanding so far. We have since learned about the devastating effect s of urban air pollution on human health. This paper adds another aspect the detrimental effect on photovoltaic power generation due to the reduction of light received. We hope that, in a small way, we can help raise awareness and make progress to improve the quality of life in what more and more people call home in the 21st century cities. Introduction: Air pollution in cities is a problem of growing urgency 1 . According t o the World Health Organization (WHO) , global urban air pollution levels have increase d by 8 between 2008 and 2013 2 . The highest urban air polluti on levels were observed in low- and middle -income cities in the Eastern Mediterranean and Southeast Asia. More than 80 of people living in monitored urban areas were exposed to air quality levels that exceed WHO limits 2 . Air pollution typically includ es ozone, small - (PM10) and fine (PM2.5) particular matter 3 . Fine particulate matter describes particles with a diameter of less than 2.5 µ m. The primary sources of these particles are incomplete combustion, automobile emission, dust and cooking. In its majority, they are anthropogenic, with major composites being sulfates, nitrates, ammonia, carbon, lead and organic matter. Due to their small size, PM2.5 particles are a major health hazard, because they can enter lungs and bloodstreams of humans . They give rise to chronic damage to the respirato ry- and cardiovascular system 4, 5 and contribute to premature mortality rates 6, 7 . WHO estimates that air pollution causes about 6.5 million premature deaths every year 8a . Apart from devastating effects o n health, PM2.5 particles are also the main cause of haze periods with reduced visibility occurring in urban areas all around the world 8 14 . Figure 1 shows examples of how haze changes visibility in six cities. The change in visibility is related to a reduction in solar intensity and an alteration of the spectrum reaching the ground. a) Delhi 21 b) Beijing 22 c) London 23 d) Los Angeles 24 e) Cairo 25 f) Bogota 26 Figure 1: Haze events around the world. In this study we focus on quantifying the impac t of haze on insolation levels in cities , and the reduction in power generated by photovoltaic panels due to this effect . Until 2050, it is expected that 2.5 billion people will live in urban areas 15 . City integrated photovoltaics ( PV) offer opportunities of mitigating challenges related to the high power demand of these growing urban areas 16, 17 . Surprising to the authors, it was difficult to assess the global capacity of PV installations in cities , based on literature data. Howe ver, there are numerous indicators that a significant PV capacity is installed in urban areas , and more is to come. The potential for rooftop solar PV installations in cities was estimated at 5.4 TW 70 of the electricity demand of urban residential and commercial consumers 17a . Only a small fraction of this potential has been utilized so far. According to Environment America, in 2014, 6.5 of the solar PV capacity in the United States, or 1.3G W, were installed in cities, with Los Angeles in the lead 18 . Several countries have formulated targets for rooftop installations, the most remarkable being India with 40 GW planned b y 2022. China already has 22 GW of combined PV capacity installed on rooftops, and a further boost in
__label__energy	Life cycle economic viability analysis of battery storage in electricity market Yinguo Yanga, Yiling Yeb, Zhuoxiao Chengb, Guangchun Ruanb, Qiuyu Lua, Xuan Wangband Haiwang Zhongb aGuangdong Power Grid Corp, Guangdong, China bDepartment of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China ARTICLE INFO Keywords : energy storage battery degradation economic viability cost-benefit analysis internal rate of returnABSTRACT Battery storage is essential to enhance the flexibility and reliability of electric power systems by providing auxiliary services and load shifting. Storage owners typically gains incentives from quick responses to auxiliary service prices, but frequent charging and discharging also reduce its lifetime. Therefore, this paper embeds the battery degradation cost into the operation simulation to avoid overestimated profits caused by an aggressive bidding strategy. Based on an operation simulation model, this paper conducts the economic viability analysis of whole life cycle using the internal rate of return(IRR). A clustering method and a typical day method are developed to reduce the huge computational burdens in the life-cycle simulation of battery storage. Our models and algorithms are validated by the case study of two mainstream technology routes currently: lithium nickel cobalt manganese oxide (NCM) batteries and lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries. Then a sensitivity analysisispresentedtoidentifythecriticalfactorsthatboostbatterystorageinthefuture.Weevaluate the IRR results of different types of battery storage to provide guidance for investment portfolio. Nomenclature Δ𝑡 Time unit. 𝐸𝑟 The rated energy of battery storage (MWh). 𝑃𝑟 The rated power of battery storage (MW). bat Used as a subscript to indicate battery pur- chasing cost. CaplossThe battery capacity loss. Cap( ) 𝑡The capacity of battery storage deployed in auxiliary service market and energy mar- ket(MW). Cch Battery charging rate. Cdch Battery discharging rate. DoD Depth of discharge, which is the percentage of the battery that has been discharged rela- tive to the overall capacity of the battery. d Thespecificvalueofthedepthofdischarge. equ Used as a subscript to indicate equipment purchasing cost. et The state of charge at hour t, i.e. the enegy held in the battery storage at hour t. FEC Full equivalent cycles, which is the average ofbatterychargeanddischargecyclesforthe given period of time. ORCID(s):fix Usedasasuperscripttodenotethefixedpart of income or cost. IRR Tnternal rate of return, which is a metric used in financial analysis to estimate the profitability of potential investments. LCOS The levelized cost of storage. LFP Used as a subscript to indicate lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries. LMP LocationalMarginalPricing,whichisaway forwholesaleelectricenergypricestoreflect thevalueofelectricenergyatdifferentloca- tions. loss Usedasasuperscripttodenotebatterydegra- dation. mkt Used as a subscript to indicate benefits of batterystoragefromparticipatingintheelec- tricity market. NCM Usedasasubscripttoindicatelithiumnickel cobalt manganese oxide (NCM) batteries. op Usedasasuperscripttodenoteoperationand maintenance cost of battery storage. perf Used as a superscript to denote frequency regulation performance. Price( ) 𝑡Themarketpriceofauxiliaryservicemarket and energy market( MWh or MW). ProbresTheprobabilityofspinningreserve sdeploy- ment. Page 1 of 17arXiv:2305.15079v2 eess.SY 28 May 2023 rcy Used as a subscript to indicate battery recy- cling revenue. RmileageFrequency regulation ratio, which is the mileage of RegD (dynamic) divided by the mileage of RegA (traditional). ScoreperfScore of frequency regulation performance assessment. SoC State of Charge, which is a measurement of the amount of energy available in a battery at a specific point in time expressed as a percentage. SOH State of health, which describes the overall health and remaining capacity of a battery. sta Usedasasubscripttoindicatepowerstation design and construction cost. T Temparature of the battery. var Used as a superscript to denote the variable part of income or cost. 𝑖 Used as a subscript to represent dates. 𝑇 Usedasasubscripttorepresenttheincomes or costs by the end of year 𝑇. 𝑡 Used as a subscript to represent hours or year. 𝐶 The set of battery charging and discharging half cycle. 𝑐𝑎𝑝 Used as a superscript to denote frequency regulation capacity. 𝑐ℎ Usedasasuperscripttodenotebatterycharg- ing. 𝑑𝑐ℎ Used as a superscript to denote battery dis- charging. 𝑒 Used as a superscript to denote the energy market. 𝑒regThe average hourly charge or discharge en- ergyperMWfrequencyregulationcapacity, MWh. 𝐸max min The upper lower limit of the energy held in battery storage (MWh). 𝑘 Used as a subscript to indicate half cycle of battery charging and discharging. 𝑘fix Theempiricalunitvaluesofthefixedpartof the operation and maintenance cost. 𝑘var Theempiricalunitvaluesofthevariablepart of the operation and maintenance cost.𝑀 Set of typical days. 𝑁𝑑 The maximum number of cycles before the battery reaches the end of its life when the depth of discharge is d. 𝑟self The battery self-discharge rate. 𝑟𝑒𝑔 Usedasasuperscripttodenotethefrequency regulation ancillary service market. 𝑟𝑒𝑠 Used as a superscript to denote the spinning reserve ancillary service market. Δ𝑒𝑡 The amount of energy change in hour 𝑡. Cost The cost for different services that battery storage provides in electricity market( ). Income The payment for different services that bat- terystorageprovidesinelectricitymarket( ). 𝑚𝑆𝑂𝐶 Mean State of Charge. 1. Introduction Energy balance of modern power systems becomes in- creasinglychallengingwhenahighpenetrationofrenewable energy is required to fulfill the ambitious goal of carbon neutrality 1 . Cost effective energy storage such as battery storageisurgentlyneededtoprovideflexibilityresourcesto accommodate the intermittent renewable energy 2 . Batterystorageishighlyvaluableintheancillaryservice market and the energy market. In the ancillary market, battery storage is favored for its rapid response, which is widely applied in ancillary services including frequency regulation and spinning reserve. For frequency regulation, since significant frequency fluctuations may threaten the stabilityofthepowergrid,storageownersareurgedtoadjust the electricity output according to the frequency regulation signal to compensate for the imbalance between supply and demand in order to keep the frequency within a safe range. RegA is the traditional regulation signal commonly usedinfrequencyregulationmarket,whichisobtainedfrom the regional control error after passing through a low-pass filter. However, RegA(traditional) with a sampling time of 15 minutes ignores the rapid response potentials of battery storage when applied for frequency regulation. Therefore, a dynamicregulationsignalRegDsentevery2secondswillbe amorereasonablechoicewhichrewardstheabilityofquick response 3 . A high-pass filter instead of the low-pass one is used to obtain RegD(dynamic). Since the output power of the battery storage fluctuates according to the regulation signal, the concept of regulation mileage is introduced to measurethemovementofbatterystorageoutputpower.The performance of battery storage is scored according to its accuracy of response to the regulation signal. Reference 4 concluded that grid-scale batteries can significantly lower overallfrequencyregulationcoststhroughanalysisbasedon Australian electricity markets. Page 2 of 17 For spinning reserve, storage owners are required to respond to the instructions of the
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	Probabilistic Analysis of Masked Loads with Aggregated Photovoltaic Production Shaohui Liu Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering The University of Texas at Austin Austin, TX, USA shaohui.liu utexas.eduDaniel Adrian Maldonado Emil M. Constantinescu Mathematics and Computer Science Argonne National Laboratory Lemont, IL, USA fmaldonadod, emconsta g anl.gov Abstract In this paper we present a probabilistic analysis framework to estimate behind-the-meter photovoltaic generation in real time. We develop a forward model consisting of a spatiotemporal stochastic process that represents the photovoltaic generation and a stochastic differential equation with jumps that represents the demand. We employ this model to disaggregate the behind-the-meter photovoltaic generation using net load and irradiance measurements. Index Terms distributed PV system, SDE, spatiotemporal model, real-time prediction I. I NTRODUCTION The increase in penetration of user-sized distributed energy resource (DER) systems poses challenges for the planning and operation of the grid. A major issue with behind-the-meter (BTM) solar generation is the lack of direct measurements of the instantaneous power injections. Furthermore, the volatility of solar generation production caused by weather variability (e.g., cloud coverage) brings additional uncertainty to forecasts 1 . This lack of observability makes it difﬁcult to quantify the aggregated effect of BTM photovoltaics (PV) generation on the transmission grid. Proper characterization of BTM PV generation in real time would allow utilities to prepare for and quantify the risk of situations in which sudden ramps in generation occur or in which a large amount of DER systems trip after a fault. Given the constraints that utilities face with respect to measurements, forecasts, and parameters of inverters; recent studies have investigated the issue of disaggregating the PV power signal from the measurements or inferring the instantaneous PV power through irradiance measurements and other proxy regressors. One can consider the disaggregation problem as an approximate algebraic relationship: PNET PMASKED PPV (1) wherePNETis the net power seen by the transmission grid (also called measured power), PPVis the aggregated power generated by the distributed PV inverters, and PMASKED is the This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Ofﬁce of Science, Advanced Scientiﬁc Computing Research under Contract DE-AC02-06CH11357.actual aggregated load demand that remains masked by the PV production. In a high loading and high PV production scenario, the utility might underestimate the actual load in the feeder, and a voltage transient that trips a large amount of PV inverters may jeopardize the dynamic stability of the system. Several researchers are investigating how to disaggregate the masked load from the net load signals. Vrettos et al. 2 characterize the literature in three main groups: transpo- sition model approaches, data-driven approaches, and hybrid approaches. The transposition methods involve extrapolating irradiance to a set of inverter models to compute the PV generation. For instance, Engerer and Mills 3 use proxy measurements from a PV inverter together with the clear-sky index and a PV inverter performance model to extrapolate the generation of the rest of the inverters. In 4 , Killinger et al. further delve into the cases in which the parameters of the PV inverters are not uniform, and they develop a projection method to calculate the global horizontal irradiance (GHI) using a proxy power measurement. The GHI measures the total amount of irradiance received by a ﬂat surface at the ground from above, and is a central indicator of the solar energy that can be produced by PV panels. With regard to the data-driven methods, Sossan et al. 5 and Patel et al. 6 analyze the impact of global horizontal irradiance ﬂuctuations on the time series and use this information to desegregate the PV generation from the net load signal. The hybrid approaches include 7 and 8 . In the former publication, neural networks together with load forecasts and PV production models are used to forecast the net load. In the latter, Bright et al. use satellite-derived GHI estimates in 10-minute intervals, together with PV generation models, to interpolate to the aggregated PV generation. In this paper we propose a novel algorithm for the dis- aggregation of instantaneous PV generation in a feeder that falls into the category of hybrid methods. Our methodology differs from previous work in that we consider high-frequency measurements of irradiance and net load. It has been shown in 9 and 10 that both the load and the PV generation, in short time intervals, can be characterized as stochastic processes with certain properties. To extract information from the higher-resolution time se- ries, we ﬁt statistics such as temporal variance, autocorrelation 21st Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2020Porto, Portugal June 29 July 3, 2020arXiv:2004.10334v1 eess.SY 21 Apr 2020 and variogram, which allow us to obtain the parameters of the underlying masked load process, provided that we have a model for the spatial irradiance and the installed PV panels. While modeling the instantaneous PV generation with irradiance data and inverter parameters can be error-prone, by leveraging the spatiotemporal statistics produced by the irradiance ﬂuctuation we can tolerate higher errors in the model. To this end, we develop a model for the geographically distributed PV aggregation power injection with limited solar irradiance measurements. We then design a modiﬁed stochastic differential equation model based on the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process with jumps to simulate the masked load yielding a jump-diffusion process 9 . The net load model then results from the combination of the two submodels. We further design a disaggregation algorithm to mitigate the error of masked load estimation caused by the estimated PV generation. Simulation studies with real recorded solar irradiance data and load data recorded by PMU show that the spatiotemporal model with the disaggregation algorithm is a tenable method to reduce dis- aggregation error. Moreover, simulations indicate that we can accurately estimate the aggregated PV active power generation at a distribution feeder with limited sensor deployment. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In section II we model the PV power with a novel spatial Gaussian process (GP) for predicting solar irradiance under limited observations. In section III we model the load power by
__label__energy	Grid Modeling of Renewable Energy Dr. Sohail Khan October 31, 2024 Contents 1 Power System Network Modeling 2 1.1 Branches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1.2 Generator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.3 Loads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.4 Shunt Elements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.5 Network Equations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.6 DC Modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 Power Flow 6 2.1 AC Power Flow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2.2 Optimal Power Flow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.3 Load Flow Algorithms for AC Power Flow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 3 Types of Grid Models and Power Flow Analysis 9 3.1 Steady-State Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 3.2 Dynamic Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 3.3 Frequency Domain Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.4 Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 4 Renewable Energy Sources Modeling 11 4.1 Renewable Energy Sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 4.2 Power Flow Problem with Renewable Energy Sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 4.3 Single-Period Simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 4.4 Multi-Period Simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 4.5 Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 5 Use-Case Based Analysis 14 5.1 Simulation of Single Point in Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 5.2 Multi-period simulation with deterministic forecast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 5.3 Multi-period simulation with stochastic forecast as scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 5.4 Multi-period simulation with stochastic forecast as full transition probabilities . . . . . . . 16 5.5 Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 6 Further Reading 18 6.1 Power Quality . .
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Coupling OMNeT and mosaik for integrated Co-Simulation of ICT-reliant Smart Grids FRAUKE OEST , EMILIE FROST , MALIN RADTKE , and SEBASTIAN LEHNHOFF, OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, Germany The increasing integration of renewable energy resources requires so-called smart grid services for monitoring, control and automation tasks. Simulation environments are vital for evaluating and developing innovative solutions and algorithms. Especially in smart energy systems, we face a variety of heterogeneous simulators representing, e.g., power grids, analysis or control components and markets. The co-simulation framework mosaik can be used to orchestrate the data exchange and time synchronization between individual simulators. So far, the underlying communication infrastructure has often been assumed to be optimal and therefore, the influence of e.g., communication delays has been neglected. This paper presents the first results of the project cosima, which aims at connecting the communication simulator OMNeT to the co-simulation framework mosaik to analyze the resilience and robustness of smart grid services, e.g., multi-agent-based services with respect to adaptivity, scalability, extensibility and usability. This facilitates simulations with realistic communication technologies (such as 5G) and the analysis of dynamic communication characteristics by simulating multiple messages. We show the functionality and benefits of cosima in experiments with 50 agents. CCS Concepts: Networks Network simulations. Additional Key Words and Phrases: smart grids, co-simulation, communica- tion simulation, couplings, OMNeT , mosaik Availability of Data and Material: The data and code used in this paper are available at https: gitlab.com mosaik examples cosima - tags cosima_paper_12_22. 1 INTRODUCTION Intelligent electricity grids, so-called smart grids, need to be flexible, available, reliable and economically attractive 36 . The transition of existing electricity generation to renewable, decentralized gener- ation increases the complexity of the overall system, as the moni- toring and control mechanisms should be able to deal with many individual plants and also with (e.g. weather-related) feed-in fluctu- ations 36,56 . Intelligent control and monitoring mechanisms in energy systems require the integration of Information and Commu- nication Technology ( ICT) 56 . Here, the properties and behavior of the ICTsystem (e.g., the topology of the communication network, protocols, communication latency, bandwidth, information security and reliability issues) influence the connected power system 43 . For instance, the lack of bandwidth may lead to an increase in the overall message delay and strongly delayed monitoring messages may lead to a decrease in the observability of the power system. Significantly delayed control messages may also cause a decreased power system state 18 . On the other hand, the power grid also has an influence on the ICTsystem 43 . Firstly, if there is a need for better observability of the power system state, sensors like Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) typically increase their sampling rate F.O., E.F., and M.R. contributed equally to this research. Authors address: Frauke Oest, frauke.oest offis.de; Emilie Frost, emilie.frost offis.de; Malin Radtke, malin.radtke offis.de; Sebastian Lehnhoff, sebastian.lehnhoff offis.de, OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, Escherweg 2, Oldenburg, Germany, 26121.and hence, create more traffic on the ICTsystem 6,29 . Secondly, devices in the ICTinfrastructure (such as routers, switches or radio towers for mobile communication) are often directly connected to the power grid. Therefore, if a power outage occurs, the availability and capability of the communication network are restricted 57 . Apart from monitoring and control tasks, we assume that more and novel smart grid services will be (partially) based on multi- agent systems (MAS) to address autonomy, self-organization and self-optimization for a more resilient and robust power system 24 . Such Multi-Agent System ( MAS )-based services may perform vari- ous tasks in the power system (e.g., voltage control 59 , decentral black start 45 , unit commitment 21,35 ) as logically or physi- cally distributed algorithms. MAS can include numerous agents and depend on a period of extensive message exchange between indi- vidual agents for e.g., cooperative problem-solving. This can also involve the data exchange of complex objects (e.g., multiple sched- ules) between agents. Therefore, they depend on the underlying ICTinfrastructure as the behavior of the MAS may be influenced by communication properties such as latency. This assumption is made without loss of generality. Non- MAS services in smart grids that are dependent on ICTcan also be significantly affected by communi- cation deficits. Because of the criticality of Cyber-Physical Energy Systems (CPES), systematic testing of new technologies is essential to ensure functionality, stability and safety. Due to the complexity and the interdisciplinary of the systems, the investigation of the behavior of CPES is mostly done through co-simulations 46 . The co-simulation framework mosaik 10 allows the combina- tion of different, heterogeneous simulators from different domains and thus also the creation of complex power grid scenarios with a large number of loads and generators. The framework mosaik has al- ready been used in multiple smart grid-related projects. Therefore, a collection of smart grid components and tools have been developed and many of them are provided as free simulators in the mosaik ecosystem 11 or in the MultI-DomAin test Scenario ( MIDAS ) 2 , which also includes a semi-automatic scenario configuration tool. This reduces the time to develop new or extend existing smart grid scenarios in mosaik. The framework mosaik facilitates the data exchange and the temporal synchronization of simulators. As the data between simulators are directly exchanged, mosaik-based simulations assume perfect communication conditions. In order to represent a more realistic communication behavior, external com- munication simulators, such as the framework OMNeT 25,51 , need to be integrated into a mosaik-based simulation. Whereas most power grid simulators operate in time discrete simulations within mosaik (i.e., advancing simulation time in fixed discrete time inter- vals), communication simulators run in discrete event simulations (i.e., advancing in flexibly sized time intervals). The coupling of multiple simulators with heterogeneous scheduling algorithms and independent simulation clocks is therefore quite challenging 7 . ACM SIGENERGY Energy Informatics Review Volume 3 Issue 4, December 2022arXiv:2209.12550v3 cs.NI 29 May 2024 Previous coupling approaches based on mosaik 2 were limited to time discrete simulations. In order to capture the effects of a
__label__energy	1 Wind Driven Semiconductor Electricity Generator With High Direct Current Output B ased On a Dynamic Schottky Junction Xutao Yu1 , Haonan Zheng1 , Yanghua Lu1, Jiaqi Si1, Runjiang Shen1, Yanfei Yan1, Zhenzhen Hao1, Shisheng Lin1,2 1College of Microelectronics, College of Information Science and Electronic Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310027, China 2State Key Laboratory of Modern Optical Instrumentation, Zhejiang Universit y, Hangzhou, 310027, China These authors contributed equally to this work . Email: shishenglin zju.edu.cn Abstract As the fast development of internet of things (IoTs), distributed sensors have been frequently used and the small and portable power source s are highly demanded. However, the present portable power source such as lithium battery has low capacity and need to be replaced or recharged frequently. A portable pow er source which can contin uously generate electrical power in situ will be an idea solution . Herein, we demonstrate a wind driven semiconductor electricity generator based on a dynamic Schottky junction, which can output a contin uous direct current with an average value of 4.4 mA (the maximum value of 8.4 mA) over 360 second s. Compared with the previous metal semiconductor generator, the output current is one thousand times higher. Furthermore , this wind driven generator has been expl ored to function as a turn counter due to its stable output and also to drive a graphene ultraviolet 2 photodetector , which shows a responsivity of 35.8 A W under the 365 nm ultraviolet light. Our research provides a feasible method to achieve wind power gen eration and power supply for distributed sensors in the future. Main With the development of internet of things (IoTs) ,1-3 more and more sensors emerge and distribute widely , such as photodetectors ,4-6 temperature sensors and vibration sensors,7-10 serving in the era of big data. While the rapid development of these scattered power -consuming sensors,11,12 a smart and in -time energy supply is hig hly deman ded for smooth transmission of big data . Strikingly , energy storage has attracted more attentions than the small and convenient electric generators.13,14 Nevertheless, lithium battery needs to be frequently recharged or replaced, which is very cost ly and time-consuming .15,16 The best way of solving this problem is to create a small and convenient generator,14,17,18 which for instance make uses of the energy of low-frequency gentle breeze. It is hard to creat e a small and efficient generator , as clean energy sources like wind energy , tidal energy and geothermal energy can only be transformed into electricity by conve ntional large size equipment. For example, traditional wind turbines are very complex with a large amount of blades, transmission sha ft, gear case, generator unit.19,20 What s more troublesome is that conven tional wind generator unit makes use of heavy coil rotation to cut magnetic inductance line, and produces alternating current.21-24 In order to store energy and consume energy, generator also needs external rectifying circuit to change it into direct current.25-29 For powering the distributed sensors in IoTs and making the wind 3 generator more conv enient, it is an urgent need to invent a novel type of generator using a simpler dev ice. Herein, for the first time, we demonstrate a novel wind driven semiconductor electricity generator with ultrahigh direct current output, which is based on a dynamic metal semiconductor van der Waals Schottky junction only. Our generator has an extremely high direct -current output of 8.4 mA for a contact area of 0.45 cm2 between the metal and semiconductor . Furthermore, this generator has been demonstrated to work continuously over 360 seconds with a stabilized output. As a proof of concept, through a special design with polyimide insulating layer attached to the surface of silicon rod, a portable turn counter has been obtained, wh ose mechanism is in contrast to the common magnetic turn -counting sensors.30-32 The wind driven semiconductor electricity generator has also been used to drive a graphene photode tector, which exhibits responsivity over 35.8 A W . This demonstrates a potential way of direct power supply for driving widely distributed sensors in the age of IoTs. Figure 1a illustrates the three -dimensional structure of a fabricated wind driven semiconductor electricity generator . The generator is composed of a windmill transmission blade , a semiconductor rotor structure and a metal stator structure , which are mainly supported by the metal bracket to form the complete device structure . It is worth noting that the metal and semiconductor contact closely as the insert of Figure 1b. When the copper sheet is attached with the p -type silicon rod in static state, the static J -V curve of the formed Schottky diode can be measured , which is also shown in Figure 1 b. The rectified J -V curve , at the bias voltage from -1.0 V to 1 .0 V, 4 demonstrates a good static Schottky junction formed between Cu and p -type silicon. At the same time, the J -V curve of dynamic Cu p -Si Schottky junction at the bias voltage from -1.0 V to 1.0 V has been shown in the Figure 1c. The wind energy collected is converted into kinetic energy, driv ing semiconductor rotor structure rotating with the blade. Compared with static J -V curve shown in Figure 1b, it is pretty interesting to find that the dynamic process shows the fluctuation of J -V curve (magnified in the inset of Figure 1c). Certainly , the J -V curve of dynamic Cu p -Si Schottky also exhibits the g ood rectification characteristic , which means the fine contact surface of the device. Similar to J-V curve of conventional solar cells under light,33-35 the J-V curve of our generator in the dynamic process also deviates from the origin , which well confirmed the existence of power generation . The physical mechanism of this generator can be explained by the dynamic establishment and destruction of the depletion layer , which c auses the separation of diffused electrons and holes in the built -in
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Received: Added at production Revised: Added at production Accepted: Added at production DOI: xxx xxxx A R T I C L E T Y P E AI-Driven approach for sustainable extraction of earth s subsurface renewable energy while minimizing seismic activity Diego Gutiérrez-Oribio Alexandros Stathas Ioannis Stefanou 1Nantes Universite, Ecole Centrale Nantes, CNRS, GeM, UMR 6183, F-44000, Nantes, France Email: diego.gutierrez-oribio ec-nantes.fr, alexandros.stathas ec-nantes.fr, ioannis.stefanou ec-nantes.fr Correspondence Corresponding author Diego Gutiérrez-Oribio, Nantes Universite, Ecole Centrale Nantes, CNRS, GeM, UMR 6183, F-44000, Nantes, France. Email: diego.gutierrez-oribio ec-nantes.fr Funding Information This research was supported by the European Research Council s (ERC) support under the European Union s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program (Grant agreement no. 101087771 INJECT) and the Region Pays de la Loire and Nantes Métropole under the Connect Talent programme (CEEV: Controlling Extreme EVents - Blast: Blas LoAds on STructures).Abstract Deep Geothermal Energy, Carbon Capture and Storage, and Hydrogen Storage hold considerable promise for meeting the energy sector s large-scale requirements and reducing CO 2emissions. However, the injection of fluids into the Earth s crust, essential for these activities, can induce or trigger earthquakes. In this paper, we highlight a new approach based on Reinforcement Learning for the control of human-induced seismicity in the highly complex environment of an underground reservoir. This complex system poses significant challenges in the control design due to parameter uncertainties and unmodeled dynamics. We show that the reinforcement learning algorithm can interact efficiently with a robust controller, by choosing the controller parameters in real-time, reducing human-induced seismicity and allowing the consideration of further production objectives, e.g., minimal control power. Simulations are presented for a simplified underground reservoir under various energy demand scenarios, demonstrating the reliability and effectiveness of the proposed control-reinforcement learning approach. K E Y W O R D S Energy geomechanics, Earthquake prevention, Reinforcement Learning, Robust control 1 INTRODUCTION Recently, the industrial world s growing energy demands with the need to slow CO 2emissions that accelerate climate change have motivated scientists and engineers towards new technologies, including Deep Geothermal Energy, Carbon Capture and Storage, and Hydrogen Storage,1. These promising new technologies involve the process of injection of fluids in underground reservoirs, which has the potential to induce earthquakes ( i.e., human-induced seismicity, see2,3,4). Indeed, human-induced seismicity, has already prompted the closure of several geothermal plans globally5,6,7,8,9,10. In the framework of optimization theory, the industrial objective can be stated as controlling the fluid circulation to minimize human-induced seismicity, while sustaining energy production. This problem involves a system (an underground reservoir) that is highly complex with parameters and dynamics that are not (and can not be) entirely known. These highly ambitious objectives can be met using Machine Learning (ML) techniques and, in particular, Reinforcement Learning (RL). RL focuses on the development of software agents that are capable of making optimal decisions in dynamic and uncertain environments. The advent of RL can be traced back to the Dynamic programming optimisation methods established in11,12. It is a powerful framework that enables machines to learn from their interactions with the environment, rather than relying on explicit instructions or labeled datasets. In RL, an agent learns through a trial-and-error process, where it takes actions in an environment, receives feedback in the form of rewards or penalties, and adjusts its behaviour to maximize the cumulative reward over time (see13,14for more details). Due to its advantages, RL has been used to optimize the performance of complex systems based on a given reward. Abbreviations: RL, Reinforcement Learning; ML, Machine Learning; SR, Seismicity Rate; DDPG, Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient. International Journal 2024;00:1 15 wileyonlinelibrary.com journal 2024 Copyright Holder Name 1arXiv:2408.03664v2 cs.LG 5 Nov 2024 2 Gutiérrez-Oribio ET AL . In15, a state-of-the-art asynchronous actor-critic network (A3C) has been implemented for controlling earthquake-like instabilities in a simplified earthquake model (the spring-slider). This model-free approach allows the RL algorithm to learn how to control the system s response by autonomously adjusting the uniform pressure applied on the spring-slider, without requiring any prior knowledge of the environment dynamics. Nevertheless, in a large reservoir system, the space of the unknown states is huge, since the spatial distribution of the fluid pressure is also taken into account (see curse of dimensionality in16), leading to important difficulties ( e.g., catastrophic forgetting and oscillations, see13,17) in completing training when a standard reinforcement learning approach is used. Inspired by15, we apply RL in the more involved underground reservoir model, where diffusion of the injection fluid and the seismicity rate (SR) of the region are accounted for. To allow the agent to learn in this higher dimensional space, we employ a new approach, in which a robust controller (see18) is implemented to control the fluid injection over the reservoir and the RL will adjust the controller gains automatically depending on a given optimization task. This is known as gain-scheduled reinforcement learning19,20,21. More specifically, in18, the authors have provided initial insights into controlling induced seismicity in underground reservoirs using robust control techniques, while considering fluid circulation constraints linked to energy production. These controllers are adept at addressing model uncertainties and disturbances within the system. However, their effectiveness hinges on accurate knowledge of the bounds associated with these uncertainties and disturbances, which can be challenging to measure accurately in real underground reservoirs. This combination of RL with robust control theory allows for the introduction of further objectives in the reward function of the problem. The RL algorithm provides a suitable selection of the controller parameters to meet such goals, i.e., minimizing the SR in a given region while meeting the energy demands and minimizing the control power of the wells. The paper s structure is the following: In Section 2, the seismicity rate (SR) model is introduced, and the problem statement of the work is outlined, illustrating how the SR increases with fluid injections. The combined control-RL strategy for minimizing induced seismicity is presented in Sections 3 and 4. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, simulations are conducted in Section 5, considering various scenarios of intermittent energy demand and production constraints.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	MOISTURE -DRIVEN MORPHOLOGY CHANGES IN THE THERMAL AND DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES OF TPU-B ASED SYNTACTIC FOAMS Sabarinathan P Subramaniyan Dept. of Mechanical Engineering University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison, WI 53706Partha Pratim Das Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering University of Texas at Arlington Arlington, TX Rassel Raihan Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering University of Texas at Arlington Arlington, TXPavana Prabhakar Dept. of Mechanical Engineering Dept. of Civil Env. Engineering University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison, WI 53706 pavana.prabhakar wisc.edu October 18, 2023 ABSTRACT Syntactic foams are a promising candidate for applications in marine and oil and gas industries in underwater cables and pipelines due to their excellent insulation properties. The effective transmission of electrical energy through cables requires insulation materials with a low loss factor and low dielectric constant. Similarly, in transporting fluid through pipelines, thermal insulation is crucial. However, both applications are susceptible to potential environmental degradation from moisture exposure, which can significantly impact the material s properties. This study addresses the knowledge gap by examining the implications of prolonged moisture exposure on TPU and TPU-derived syntactic foam via various multi-scale materials characterization methods. The research focuses on a flexible syntactic foam created using selective laser sintering and thermoplastic polyurethane elastomer (TPU) reinforced with glass microballoons (GMB). The study specifically explores the impact of moisture exposure duration and GMB volume fraction on microphase morphological changes, their associated mechanisms, and their influence on thermal transport and dielectric properties. Keywords Thermoplastic Polyurethane (TPU) Syntactic foams Moisture Aging Thermal Transport and Dielectric Microphase morphology 1 Introduction Block copolymers known as thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers (TPUs) are composed of alternating hard and soft segments, with the soft segments typically derived from polyester or polyether (polyol) and the hard segments produced by combining a chain extender with an isocyanate. By varying the formulation and constitution, as well as incorporating additives, the mechanical properties of TPUs, including modulus, strength, hardness, damping, and tribological performance, can be customized. TPUs are incredibly versatile, with widespread use in various applications such as sealings, hoses, shoe soles, cable sheaths, films, foams, and automotive interiors. They exhibit the processing abilities of plastics and the high elasticity of rubber, making them a sought-after material in the industry. Moreover, TPUs are well-known for their low-temperature flexibility, excellent abrasion resistance, good processing characteristics, and biocompatibility, making them ideal for use in diverse fields, including transportation, construction, and biomedical materials 1 5 .arXiv:2310.11200v1 physics.app-ph 17 Oct 2023 APREPRINT Considerable research has been carried out to investigate the impact of hard-to-soft segment ratio, hard segment type, chain extender type, and segment length on various properties of thermoplastic polyurethane elastomer (TPU). Hydrogen bonding, crystallization behavior, mechanical performance, thermal transport, radiation stability, and dielectric properties of TPU have been extensively studied 6 11 . Numerous studies have been conducted on the impact of moisture on TPU, with a notable emphasis on mechanical degradation 5,12 18 . Despite the large volume of research that has been conducted on TPU, a significant knowledge gap remains regarding the long-term effects of moisture-induced microphase morphology changes caused by hydrolysis, and specifically how these changes affect thermal transport and dielectric properties. Our current study aims to bridge this gap by establishing a correlation between microphase morphology and its properties. Syntactic foams are a type of closed-cell foam that is composed of hollow microspheres that are embedded within a matrix material. The microspheres themselves are typically constructed from materials such as glass, cenosphere (a waste material produced by the combustion of fly ash), or metal, while the matrix materials are typically composed of either polymers, ceramics, or metals. Among the various types of syntactic foams, polymer-based foams are particularly popular in a range of different industries, including the marine, automotive, aerospace, and electrical sectors. This is largely due to the fact that they offer numerous desirable properties, such as high strength, low density, high buoyancy, low thermal expansion, vibrational damping, and acoustic, thermal, and electrical insulation. These properties make them ideal for a wide range of applications, including energy-absorbing cores in sandwich composites, radome material, acoustic insulation for underwater sonar devices, thermal insulation, and electrical cable insulation. Importantly, the properties of syntactic foams can be customized by altering the matrix type, the volume fraction of the hollow microspheres, and the thickness of the hollow microspheres walls 19 23 . In the present work, thermoplastic polyurethane elastomer was used as the matrix material in conjunction with soda-lime borosilicate-based glass microballoon reinforcements. Elastomeric and rubber-based syntactic foams have been the subject of significant advancements in recent years, with researchers developing materials that exhibit remarkable versatility across a range of industries. Notably, these foams have been employed in the design of shoe soles, pneumatic tires, wires, and cable compounds. Furthermore, recent research has demonstrated the immense potential of thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers-based syntactic foam for buoyancy and coaxial cable insulation 24 . Tripathi et al. 25 developed a fire-protective clothing material comprising flexible silicone hollow glass microballoons syntactic foam. Their investigation revealed that applying syntactic foam coating on the glass fabric resulted in a notable improvement, with a second-degree burn time of 10 seconds, compared to the 6.4 seconds observed for the glass fabric alone. In the current study, Thermoplastic Polyurethane Elastomer (TPU) reinforced with Glass MicroBalloons (GMB) was manufactured using Selective Laser Sintering (SLS). In our prior study 26 , we conducted a deep dive into understanding the role of GMB reinforcement and moisture aging on the degradation mechanisms in the viscoelastic properties of TPU-Based Syntactic Foams produced using the SLS process 27 . The existing literature on TPU-based composites produced via SLS has predominantly focused on boosting thermal and electrical conduction properties 28 34 consequently, a gap in the realm of thermal and electrical insulation warrants further investigation. To that end, the current work aims to investigate the effect of moisture, GMB volume fractions, and temperature on the material s thermal transport and dielectric properties. The chemical changes resulting from moisture aging were also studied and correlated with the observed material properties. 2 Motivation The primary aim of this
__label__energy	Distributed Coordination of Deferrable Loads: A Real-time Market with Self-ful lling ForecastsI Hazem A. Abdelghanya,d, Simon H. Tindemansa, Mathijs M. de Weerdtb, Han la Poutr ea,c aDepartment of Electrical Sustainable Energy, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Computer Science, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands. bDepartment of Software Technology, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Computer Science, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands. cCentrum Wiskunde Informatica (CWI), Amsterdam, The Netherlands. dElectrical and Control Engineering Department, Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport, Cairo, Egypt. Abstract Increased uptake of variable renewable generation and further electri cation of energy demand necessitate e cient coordination of exible demand resources to make most e cient use of power system assets. Flexible electrical loads are typically small, numerous, heterogeneous and owned by self-interested agents. Considering the multi-temporal nature of exibility and the uncertainty involved, scheduling them is a complex task. This paper proposes a forecast-mediated real-time market-based control approach (F-MBC) for cost minimizing coordination of uninterruptible time-shiftable (i.e. deferrable) loads. F-MBC is scalable, privacy preserving, and usable by device agents with small computational power. Moreover, F-MBC is proven to overcome the challenge of mutually con icting decisions from equivalent devices. Simulations in a simpli ed but challenging case study show that F-MBC produces near-optimal behaviour over multiple time-steps. Keywords: Market-based Control, Markov Decision Process, Flexibility, Demand Response, Distributed Energy Resources. 1. Introduction Power systems have seen an increasing penetration of distributed energy resources (DERs), such as distributed generators, exible demand, and small-scale renewable gen- eration. This trend has signi cant impacts on the network, leading to congestion, reduced network utilization, and even instability or system inoperability at the distribution level 1 . Consequently, the transition to future power systems requires either a great deal of investment in grid reinforcement, or e cient use of exibility from DERs through coordination. Optimal coordination among DERs is a complex multi- dimensional problem, especially in settings with small, numerous, heterogeneous DERs owned by self-interested agents. The complexity is further ampli ed by inter- temporal constraints introduced by shifting energy con- sumption and uncertainties in DER usage patterns and renewable-based generation. A suitable coordination ap- proach for such a setting is required to be simple and usable by agents with small computational power 2 , scalable for IThis project has received funding from the European Union s Hori- zon 2020 research and innovation programme under Marie Sklodowska- Curie grant agreement No. 675318 (INCITE). Corresponding author Email address: h.a.m.f.abdelghany tudelft.nl (Hazem A. Abdelghany)settings with numerous DERs, and privacy preserving since the DERs being considered are owned by self-interested agents. This problem has been considered in a number of set- tings, including electric vehicle charging 3 , deferrable loads such as washing machines, dish washers, and ther- mostatically controlled loads. Most control techniques for exible demand are based either on centralized coordina- tion, top-down control, or price response 4,5 . Centralized and top-down approaches (e.g. 6 ) are not suitable when considering privacy, autonomy, and scalability constraints, whereas completely decentralized approaches relying on one-way communication (e.g. price response 7,8 ) have un- certain realized system response. A comprehensive review of advantages and disadvantages of control approaches can be found in 9 . 1.1. Market-based Control A natural t for the problem of coordinating self-interested DERs is transactive control, which refers to control ap- proaches which perform coordination and control tasks by using economic incentive signaling to exchange infor- mation about generation, consumption, constraints, and responsiveness of assets over dynamic, real-time forecasting periods 10 . Market-based control (MBC) describes a class of transactive control algorithms that take the form of a mediated market 11 . In an attempt to nd a middle way Preprint submitted to Sustainable Energy, Grids and Networks. June 16, 2020 arXiv:2004.03236v2 eess.SY 15 Jun 2020 between the aforementioned approaches, this paradigm provides simultaneously a degree of privacy, autonomy, certainty, and openness compared to the aforementioned approaches 5,9 . However, when used for coordination among numerous DERs, over multiple time-steps and tak- ing into account uncertainty, MBC approaches rapidly grow in complexity, limiting their scalability and practical fea- sibility. For example, multi-settlement markets, such as in 12,13 require complex bid formulation algorithms, which is especially hard for devices with small compu- tational power 2 . Accounting for uncertainty similarly increases complexity, as is evident in the hierarchical MBC approach in 14 . In 15,16 , iterative approaches for co- ordination were proposed. An iterative approach based on Mean- eld games was proposed in 17 . However, 18 indicates iterative approaches are not suitable for real- time operations due to uncertain convergence time and dependence on initial conditions. The same logic applies for negotiation approaches such as in 19 . On the other hand, approaches based on the assumption of cooperative agents 20,21,22 are not suitable for the settings with self-interested agents. 1.2. Real-time Market-based Control In this paper, we use the term Real-time market-based control (RTMBC) to describe a simple and scalable form of MBC. In RTMBC, DERs are represented by autonomous agents participating in a spot power market. The market is cleared for the upcoming time-step (i.e. in real time) by means of a double auction. The use of decentralized decision making and a centralized one-shot market clearing simpli es the whole process. Device level constraints and objectives are taken into account in the process of bid o er formulation. An example of such approach can be seen in 9 . Despite these bene cial properties, in practice RTMBC often leads to poor performance over multiple time-steps due to uncertainty, inter-temporal constraints of uninter- ruptible devices, and mutually-con icting decisions that arise from decentralization and the self-interested behaviour of agents 23,24,18 . For example, in 25 the e ect of such behaviour is shown to lead to exhaustion of exibility in the system. An approach for coordination among thermo- statically controlled loads was presented in 26 . This was further studied in 23 where it was found prone to load synchronization and power oscillations. Agents submitting similar bids
__label__energy	1 Energy Storage State-of-Charge Market Model Ningkun Zheng, Student Member, IEEE, Xin Qin, Student Member, IEEE, Di Wu, Senior Member, IEEE, Gabe Murtaugh, Bolun Xu, Member, IEEE Abstract This paper introduces and rationalizes a new model for bidding and clearing energy storage resources in wholesale energy markets. Charge and discharge bids in this model depend on the storage state-of-charge (SoC). In this setting, storage participants submit different bids for each SoC segment. The system operator monitors the storage SoC and updates their bids accordingly in market clearings. Combined with an optimal bidding design algorithm using dynamic programming, our paper shows that the SoC segment market model provides more accurate representations of the opportunity costs of energy storage compared to existing power-based bidding models. The new model also captures the inherent SoC-dependent operational characteristics of energy storage. We benchmark the SoC seg- ment market model against an existing single-segment model in price-taker and price-inﬂuencer simulations. The simulation results show that compared to the existing power-based bidding model, the proposed model improves proﬁts by 10-56 in the price-taker case study; the model also improves total system cost reduction from storage by around 5 , and helps reduce price volatilities in the price-inﬂuencer case study. Index Terms Energy storage, dynamic programming, power system economics. I. I NTRODUCTION Energy storage resources, especially battery energy storage, are entering wholesale electricity markets at a surging rate. The battery capacity connected to the California Independent System Operator (CAISO), the power system operator and market organizer of the state of California, has increased from 488 MW at the end of 2020 to 4,367 MW as of Sep 2022 and is expected to reach near 10 GW in 2026 1 3 . According to EIA Annual Electric Generator Report, with increasingly installed energy storage capacity ﬂatten the ancillary service market price, majority of energy storage participants starting to focus on arbitraging in wholesale energy markets 4 . Integrating energy storage resources into wholesale elec- tricity markets requires the development of new models. In centralized electricity markets, which cover most regions in North America, participants must bid using a resource model representing their operational characteristics in the market clearing. For example, thermal generators submit power seg- ment bids stemming from their heat rate curves and other operation or cost parameters, including startup costs, no- load costs, ramp rates, and minimum up and down time 5 . This work was supported in part by Columbia University Data Science Institute Seed Grant UR01006728, and in part by the U.S. Department of Energy, Ofﬁce of Electricity through the Energy Storage program under Contract DE-AC05-76RL01830. N. Zheng and B. Xu are with Columbia University, NY , USA (e-mail: nz2343 columbia.edu, bx2177 columbia.edu); X. Qin is with the University of Cambridge, UK (e-mail: xq234 cam.ac.uk); D. Wu is with Paciﬁc North- west National Laboratory, WA, USA (e-mail: di.wu pnnl.gov); G. Murtaugh is with California ISO, CA, USA (e-mail: gmurtaugh caiso.com ).However, energy storage resources have distinctly different operational characteristics compared to thermal generators and need different bidding parameters. The FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) has recognized this need and issued Order 841, which requires that future electricity market de- signs account for the physical and operational characteristics of electric storage resources through bidding parameters or other means 6 . Managing storage state-of-charge (SoC) is critical for en- ergy storage participants. The storage opportunity cost depends on SoC, and various storage operation factors, including degradation rates and efﬁciencies, depend on power rating and SoC 7 9 . Managing SoC is achievable in day-ahead mar- kets with a 24-hour optimization horizon but is not effective in real-time markets 10 . Currently, most system operators allow storage to participate in markets by self-scheduling or submitting both charge and discharge bids 11 . Storage has complete control over its SoC in self-scheduling but loses the ﬂexibility to react to actual system conditions, decreasing revenue potential and social welfare. Managing SoC through existing bidding models is difﬁcult as storage participants cannot update their bids in a timely manner based on SoC 12 . This paper introduces a storage market model that allows storage participants to effectively manage their economic bids based on SoC and better represents SoC-dependencies of energy storage physical and operational characteristics. The main contribution is ﬁve-fold: We introduce an SoC segment market model for energy storage participation to economically manage their SoC in wholesale electricity markets. The model allows energy storage to submit power rating, efﬁciency, and charge and discharge bids by segments according to the SoC ranges. We incorporate SoC-dependent physical parameters into our previous storage bidding algorithm to generate time- varying SoC-dependent charge and discharge bid curves. We combine the proposed market model with the optimal bidding algorithm to benchmark the proposed model with existing market models in terms of system costs, price results, and storage revenue in price-taker and price- inﬂuencer cases. For storage models whose parameters are independent of SoC, we model SoC-dependent bids as linear program- ming in real-time markets. Results show the proposed model reduces total system costs and price volatility with little effect on the computation time. For storage models whose physical parameters are depen- dent of SoC, we model SoC-dependent bids using mixed- integer linear programming, in which integer variables are required to model the inherent non-convexity. Results show modeling the SoC dependency in day-ahead (multi-arXiv:2207.07221v3 eess.SY 26 Jan 2023 2 period) and real-time markets can signiﬁcantly reduce system costs and price volatilities, and improve storage revenue, but have to trade-off computation time. We organize the remainder of the paper as follows. Sec- tion II reviews related literature. Sections III and IV present the proposed market model and the bidding algorithm. Sections V and VI describe case studies under price-taker and price- inﬂuencer settings. Section VII concludes this paper. II. L ITERATURE REVIEW A. Energy Storage Market Models Independent system operators and regional transmission organizations (ISOs RTOs) across North America are im- plementing new market rules to reduce barriers to energy storage participation, facilitated by FERC Order 841 13
__label__energy	1 Autonomous Kinetic Model ing of Biomass Pyrolysis using Chemical Reaction Neural Network s Weiqi Ji a,1, Franz Richter b,1, Michael J. Gollner b, Sili Deng a, a Department of Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. b Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94701 , USA . 1 Weiqi Ji and Franz Richter contribute equally to this work . Corresponding author: Sili Deng (silideng mit.edu) . Abstract Modeling the burning processes of biomass such as wood, grass, and crops is crucial for the modeling and prediction of wildland and urban fire behavior . Despite its importance, the burning of solid fuels remains poorly understood , which can be partly attribute d to the unknown chemical kinetics of most solid fuels. Most available kinetic models were built upon expert knowledge, which requires chemical insights and years of experience. This work presents a framework for autonomously discovering biomass pyrolysis kinetic models from thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA) experimental data using the recently developed chemical reaction neural networks (CRNN). The ap proach incorporated the CRNN model into the framework of neural ordinary differential equations to predict the residual mass in TGA data. In addition to the flexibility of neural -network -based models, the learned CRNN model is interpretable, by incorporating the fundamental physics laws , such as the law of mass action and Arrhenius law, into the neural network structure . The learned CRNN model can then be translated into the classical forms of biomass c hemical kinetic models , which facilitate s the extraction of chemical insights and the integration of the kinetic model into large -scale fire simulation s. We demonstrate d the effectiveness of the framework in predicting the pyrolysis and oxidation of cellul ose. This successful demonstration open s the possibility of rapid and autonomous chemical kinetic modeling of solid fuels , such as wildfire fuels and industrial polymers. Keywords : Biomass Pyrolysis, Fire Safety; Chemical Kinetics; Chemical Reaction Neural Networks, Machine Learning . 2 1. Introduction Pyrolysis is a key driver for wildland and urban fires alike. For example, in wildfire s, pyrolysis produces the gaseous fuel to sustain the spread of flames , while in timber building s, it controls the decay of a building s structural integrity during a fire. Despite its importance, pyrolysis remains poorly understood 1 which can be partially attribute d to the unknown chemical kinetics of most solid fuels. This lack of knowledge stems from the fact that multi -step chemical kinetic models are built from the chemical insight of expert s acquired over years, which makes the process slow and cumbersome. This knowledge is unavailable for biomass fuels, which partly hinders the advancement of modeling wildfire s 2 , biofuels 3 , and bio -based construction materials 4 . Neural network models have been employed for combustion kinetic modeling for computation acceleration by approximating a given complex model with computationally cheap neu ral network models 5 9 , and for learn ing combustion models from experimental dat a when there is no available model 10,11 . While black -box neural network models have shown success in fitting the experimental data, it is often desirable that the learned model can be interpretable such that the model can also elucidate the reaction pathways and thus provide chemical insights. In addition, a model that can be interpreted and consistent with fundamental physic al laws are more likely to be able to extrapolate beyond the range of thermodynamic conditions where the model is learned. Therefore, this work aims at developing an interpretable neural network biom ass pyrolysis modeling approach that can not only fit the experimental data but also elucidate the reaction pathways and kinetic parameters . We adopt the recently developed framework of Chemical Reaction Neural Networks (CRNN) , which achieves interpretability by incorporat ing the fundamental physical laws such as the law of mass action and the Arrhenius law into the structure of the neural networks . Both the reaction pathways (stoichiometric coefficients) and kinetic rate constants are treated as learnable parameters such that prior knowledge of reaction pathways are not required . We augment the CRNN with neural ordinary differential equations to facilitate the training of CRNN from TGA datasets . Since the number of model parameters can easily g o beyond one hundred, heuristic optimization methods , such as genetic algorithm s, particle swarm s, and evolution algorithm s, which are widely adopted in previous biomass kinetic modeling framework s 12 , are n ot suitable. We thus adopt stochastic gradient descent (SGD) optimization to train the CRNN model given the success of SG D in optimizing high -dimensional nonlinear deep neural network models 13 . 3 We then demonstrate the approach in modeling cellulose pyrolysis . The c ellulose model is a building block for more complex biomass fuels and has been extensively studied in the literature, which allow s us to compare the learned model with existing models derived with expert knowledge . Since t he proposed approach does not require knowledge of the target fuel, the framework c ould be applied to a variety of fuels , such as bio-derived and engineered polymers. Therefore, the approach has the potential to transform the way we study the pyrolysis kineti cs for biomass producti on and fire safety modeling. The structure of this work is as follows : we shall first review classical modeling and experimental approaches for studying the chemical kinetics of solid fuels, and then introduce the framework of CRNN and the learning results from experimental data compiled from literature ; finally, we discuss the opportunities of coupling CRNN with gas-phase kinetics and diffusion processes. 2. Literature Review on Kinetic Modeling of Solid Fuels 2.1. Classic Chemical Kinetics of Solid Fuels Figure 1. Framework of the current literature on determining kinetic parameters (KP) and reactions schemes (network). The paper referenced are 14 21 . 4 This discussion will restrict itself to the derivation of reduced chemical kinetic models that can be utilized by
__label__energy	Cyber-Physical Simulation Platform for Security Assessment of Transactive Energy Systems Yue Zhang , Scott Eiseley, Abhishek Dubeyy, Aron Laszkaz, Anurag K. Srivastava Washington State University yVanderbilt University zUniversity of Houston Abstract Transactive energy systems (TES) are emerging as a transformative solution for the problems that distribution system operators face due to an increase in the use of distributed energy resources and rapid growth in scalability of managing active distribution system (ADS). On the one hand, these changes pose a decentralized power system control problem, requiring strategic control to maintain reliability and resiliency for the community and for the utility. On the other hand, they require robust ﬁnancial markets while allowing participation from diverse pro- sumers. To support the computing and ﬂexibility requirements of TES while preserving privacy and security, distributed software platforms are required. In this paper, we enable the study and analysis of security concerns by developing Transactive Energy Security Simulation Testbed (TESST), a TES testbed for simulating various cyber attacks. In this work, the testbed is used for TES simulation with centralized clearing market, highlighting weaknesses in a centralized system. Additionally, we present a blockchain enabled decentralized market solution supported by distributed computing for TES, which on one hand can alleviate some of the problems that we identify, but on the other hand, may introduce newer issues. Future study of these differing paradigms is necessary and will continue as we develop our security simulation testbed. Index Terms Cyber-attacks, Transactive Energy Systems, Cyber-Physical Security, Simulation Platform, Testbed. I. I NTRODUCTION Transactive energy systems (TES) have emerged as an antic- ipated outcome of the shift in the electricity industry, moving from centralized, monolithic business models characterized by bulk generation and one-way delivery, toward a decentralized hierarchical model in which end-users can play a more active role in both energy production and consumption 1 , 2 . In the U.S., 36 of electricity demand is from single-family houses, which can contribute an even larger share during summer peak due to the usage of air-conditioning 3 . The development of smart home devices enables the deployment of TES to provide a more efﬁcient and secure solution. There are a number of well-documented factors contributing to this shift, including the increasing penetration of distributed energy resources, growing number of control variables in the active distribution system, increasing deterioration and fragility of the existing grid, the regulatory and public mandate for environmental awareness, and general social trends toward the democratization of services as exempliﬁed by the sharing economy 4 . TES involving responsive load and distributed generators have received signiﬁcant attention in the literature. In 3 , atransactive control approach is proposed to coordinate heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems to reduce load con- sumption. A distribution locational marginal pricing (DLMP) algorithm is developed to provide a price signal to relax congestion issues in systems with electric vehicles that can act as prosumers in 5 . A coordination method that can manage energy imbalance problems considering thermostatically con- trollable load is presented in 6 . An automated decentralized control scheme is introduced to provide ancillary and demand response services in 7 . A TES that could maximize resource utilization and balance demand and supply is proposed in 8 , 9 . A TES that allows direct control of unit consumption through an aggregator is introduced in 10 . A double-auction market scheme that utilizes transactive controllers to operate the distribution system is designed in 11 . The transactive market can be implemented with multiple possible architectures. Most of the architecture will be hi- erarchical and can have alternate architecture at a different voltage level. Prosumers can coordinate with aggregators or campus grid, and aggregators campus grid can coordinate with distribution system operators. DSO can coordinate with transmission system operators to optimize resources in the best possible way. We consider two different architectures: 1) hierarchical with centralized market clearing and 2) hierarchi- cal with a mix of centralized and distributed market clearing enabled by enhanced communication. First architecture is well explored in literature but not much for security analysis. In- formation exchange between prosumers and a system operator or aggregators happens through a large number of distributed edge-computing and Internet of Things (IoT) devices. TES communication is conducted with digital infrastructure and requires interfacing with edge-devices, which have possible vulnerabilities and attacks especially with ﬁnancial interest motives. The main actors are the consumers, which com- prise primarily residential loads and prosumers who also have distributed energy resources (DERs), such as rooftop solar batteries or ﬂexible loads capable of demand response. Additionally, a distribution system operator (DSO) manages the network with possible additional interface with microgrid operator or campus grid operators and with prosumers directly or through aggregators. For second architecture, such installations are equipped with an advanced metering infrastructure consisting of TE-enabled smart meters. In addition to the standard functionalities ofarXiv:1903.01520v1 cs.SY 4 Mar 2019 Fig. 1. Architecture of TESST. smart meters (i.e., the ability to measure line voltages, power consumption and net metering, and to communicate these to the distribution system operator), TE-enabled smart meters are capable of communicating with other smart meters, have substantial onboard computational resources, and are able to access the Internet and cloud computing services as needed. Examples of such installations include the well-known Brook- lyn Microgrid Project, 12 and the Sterling Ranch learning community (currently under development) 13 . The research community is increasingly advocating the use of distributed ledgers in TES, including our earlier work 14 . Blockchain technology enables the digital representation of energy and ﬁnancial assets and their secure transfer from one set of parties to another. By design, the security of this value transfer is guaranteed by the interaction protocol itself and obviates the need for trusted transaction intermediaries. The execution of smart contracts (i.e., code that captures the market logic and participants roles) is automated and guaranteed 15 , 16 . Additionally, the blockchain constitutes an immutable, complete, and fully auditable record of all transactions that have occurred within the system. These properties ensure market
