__label__energy	1 Natural Gas Short-Term Operation Problem with Dynamics: A Rank Minimization Approach Reza Bayani, Student Member, IEEE and Saeed D. Manshadi, Member, IEEE Abstract Natural gas-ﬁred generation units can hedge against the volatility in the uncertain renewable generation, which may occur during very short periods. It is crucial to utilize models capable of correctly capturing the natural gas network dynamics induced by the volatile demand of gas-ﬁred units. The Weymouth equation is commonly implemented in literature to avoid dealing with the mathematical complications of solving the original governing differential equations of the natural gas dynamics. However, it is shown in this paper that this approach is not reliable in the short-term operation problem . Here, the merit of the non-convex transient model is compared with the simpliﬁed Weymouth equation, and the drawbacks of employing the Weymouth equation are illustrated. The results demonstrate how changes in the natural gas demand are met by adjustment in the pressure within pipelines rather than the output of natural gas suppliers. This work presents a convex relaxation scheme for the original non-linear and non-convex natural gas ﬂow equations with dynamics, utilizing a rank minimization approach to ensure the tightness. The proposed method renders a computationally efﬁcient framework that can accurately solve the non-convex non-linear gas operation problem and accurately capture its dynamics. Also, the results suggest that the proposed model improves the solution optimality and solution time compared to the original non-linear non-convex model. Finally, the scalability of the proposed approach is veriﬁed in the case study. Index Terms natural gas dynamics, convex relaxation, rank minimization, uncertainty, short-term operation. NOMENCLATURE Variables du;t Served gas demand of gas-ﬁred unit mt p;s Mass ﬂow rate through segments of pipes pr(.)Pressure at junctions or segments of pipe ( Pa) P(.)Real power dispatch vG g;t Gas supply of supplier gat timet(kcf) t p;s Lifting variable associated with pipe segments b;h V oltage angle of bus bat hourh (.) (.); (.) (.); (.) (.) Dual variables for equality constraints (.) (.); (.) (.) Dual variables for inequality constraints Sets b2B Set of buses in power network br2BR Set of branches in power network c2C Set of junctions with gas compressors g2G Set of gas suppliers h2H Set of hours i2I Set of units in power network p2P Set of pipes in gas network s2Sp Set of all segments of pipe p t2T Set of time intervals u2U Set of gas-ﬁred units in the power network Reza Bayani is with University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA, and San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 92182, USA. Saeed D. Manshadi is with San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 92182, USA. e-mail: rbayani ucsd.edu; smanshadi sdsu.edu.Parameters c Speed of sound (m s) D Diameter of natural gas pipe (m) dG l;t Demand of natural gas load lat timet f Friction factor of natural gas pipes FC i;FG u Cost function Gas consumption function of unit i prJ j;prJ jLower upper bounds for pressure at junction j PD b;h Real power demand of bus bat hourh vG g;vG g Lower upper bounds for natural gas supplier g xbr Reactance of branch br Ratio of compressors in natural gas network x Length of natural gas pipe segments t Time step duration E; G Value of lost load in electricity gas networks g Cost multiplier of natural gas supplier g( kcf) I. I NTRODUCTION CURRENTLY , natural gas-ﬁred generation accounts for the largest portion of the electricity generation among all types of electricity production in the United States 1 . It is estimated that the share of natural gas-ﬁred units will remain at 37 among all types of electricity generation in the US for the next three decades. Due to their fast-responsive nature, natural gas-ﬁred generation units are mostly utilized during peak hours. In addition to meeting demand ﬂuctuations, they also provide support when renewable generation falls short of the predicted values. The rotatory outage that occurred during the 2021 winter storm of Texas is an example of a renewable scarcity event. Besides, in a highly renewable integrated network such as California s, the dispatch of natural gas-ﬁred units is doubled or tripled in the span of a few hours several days a year. According to the data provided by California Independent System Operator (CAISO), it is observed from Fig. 1 that natural gas-based generations experience evening surges every day 2 . These patterns are mostly caused by the simultaneous drop in total solar and wind generation supply and the diurnal growth in electricity consumption. It is noticed from Fig. 1 that the amount of variations in daily renewable power generation is in the order of GW per hour. Currently, natural gas-ﬁred units are deemed the practical option to hedge against uncertainties of this magnitude due to their extensive penetration. The operation problem of joint electricity and natural gas networks has been a subject of many researchers 3 11 . Among the applications studied in this area, we can mention demand response 3 , renewable generation integration 4 , expansion planning 5 , 6 , and market operations 7 . Natural gas linepack modeling and its effects are also covered in several research works 5 , 8 , 9 . The extentarXiv:2203.05080v1 eess.SY 9 Mar 2022 2 Fig. 1. Gas based and renewable electricity generation 22-28 June 2020 of coordination between electricity and natural gas networks is an important aspect. In some cases, natural gas network equations are merely considered as constraints (i.e., fuel security-constrained) for the optimization problem of the electricity network 9 . On the contrary, sometimes it is the case that the operation of these networks is fully coordinated, and each network is aware of the other network s state 10 , 11 . In any case, regardless of the application or the degree of coordination, utilizing a model capable of correctly capturing and representing the natural gas network dynamics is critical. Natural gas demand is highly varying and depends on various elements including the changes in the
__label__energy	1 Enabling Cyberattack-Resilient Load Forecasting through Adversarial Machine Learning Zefan Tang, Student Member, IEEE, Jieying Jiao, Student Member, IEEE, Peng Zhang, Senior Member, IEEE, Meng Yue, Member, IEEE, Chen Chen, Member, IEEE, Jun Yan Abstract In the face of an increasingly broad cyberattack surface, cyberattack-resilient load forecasting for electric utilities is both more necessary and more challenging than ever. In this paper, we propose an adversarial machine learning (AML) approach, which can respond to a wide range of attack behaviors without detecting outliers. It strikes a balance between enhancing a system s robustness against cyberattacks and maintaining a reasonable degree of forecasting accuracy when there is no attack. Attack models and conﬁgurations for the adversarial training were selected and evaluated to achieve the desired level of performance in a simulation study. The results validate the effectiveness and excellent performance of the proposed method. Index Terms Adversarial training, artiﬁcial neural network, load forecasting, attack model, cyber security I. I NTRODUCTION FORECASTING the electricity load is of paramount im- portance in the operation, planning and marketing of power systems. It is greatly needed at both transmission and distribution levels for various tasks such as hydro scheduling, hydro-thermal coordination, unit commitment, economic dis- patch, automatic generation control, load ﬂow analysis, power purchase, and load switching 1 , 2 . Traditionally, utilities were mainly concerned with the timeliness and accuracy of the predictions. Issues were mainly focused from the economic perspective. For instance, a better load forecasting enables utilities to properly assign online and ofﬂine reserves since the cost of reserves is very high 3 . Very little attention was paid to cyber security issues. However, with the increasing deployment of smart grid technologies like sensing, digital control, and communication infrastructure, the data needed as input for forecasting models can be compromised by a cyber adversary through various means. For instance, real-time forecasting data signiﬁcantly rely on power grids communication, control, and computing infrastructures, as well as their hardware facilities, all of which This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Grants ECCS-1611095, CNS-1647209 and ECCS-1831811, in part by the Department of Energy Cybersecurity for Energy Delivery Systems (CEDS), and in part by the Ofﬁce of the Provost, University of Connecticut. Z. Tang and P. Zhang are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794, USA (e-mail: p.zhang stonybrook.edu). J. Jiao and J. Yan are with the Department of Statistics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269, USA. M. Yue is with Sustainable Energy Technologies Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY 11973, USA. C. Chen is with Energy Systems Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, IL 60439, USA.are vulnerable to attacks 4 , 5 . The aggregation of data usually requires diverse data sources, which also gives rise to a wide attack surface 6 , 7 . Moreover, the cryptographic algo- rithms used to preserve the aggregated data can be decrypted if the attackers have strong capabilities or have enough time to improve their abilities 8 . Further, the long duration of data preservation requires the migration of data, and the migration process also poses security challenges 9 . A common approach to cyberattack-resilient load forecast- ing is to remove malicious data through the use of anomaly detection techniques 10 . Some methods are based on descrip- tive analytics, which identify point, contextual, and collective anomalies such as abnormal patterns 11 , 12 . Other methods are model-based and compare predicted values with observed ones 13 , 14 . Although anomaly detection is an important step in cleaning the input data, some anomalies may remain undetected, and false alarms may also be raised, which still need to be dealt with by the forecasting model 15 18 . It is necessary to reduce the sensitivity of the forecasting model to malicious input data and, thus, mitigate the impact of unidentiﬁed cyberattacks. Many robust load forecasting methods have been devised by down-weighting the observations that are more likely to be anomalies. For instance, the weight functions of Huber s seminal work 19 are widely used. 20 used robust versions of the exponential and Holt-Winters smoothing methods. Ro- bust ensemble approaches such as robust functional principal component analysis have also been applied to load forecasting 21 23 . However, most of the existing robust methods are only concerned with outliers, namely, the extremely high low observations. More sophisticated and better disguised attacks may not be remedied by the existing robust methods. Adversarial machine learning (AML) is a recent technique that promises to enhance the robustness of machine learning (ML) based forecasting methods against cyberattacks. The traditional practice in training ML models is to use clean data only, but this means that the output will be erroneous if the input data become contaminated. AML trains the model with both clean data and malicious data generated by the defender 24 . The adversarially trained models are then robust to the attacks used in the adversarial training 25 , 26 . How- ever, most existing works on AML are on image recognition, where there is little ambiguity in the output regardless of the adversarial input 27 . In the context of cyberattack-resilient load forecasting, AML approaches to image recognition cannot be directly applied. It was unclear how to set attack models and their parameters during the adversarial training stage.arXiv:2001.02289v1 eess.SY 7 Jan 2020 2 In this paper, we investigate the feasibility of using AML for an artiﬁcial neural network (ANN)-based load forecasting. A practical study is constructed using the publicly available data from the Global Energy Forecasting Competition 2012 (GEF- Com2012) 28 , 29 . This is the ﬁrst application of AML to cyberattack-resilient load forecasting. The main contributions of this paper are fourfold: The impacts of different cyberattacks on the traditional ANN-based load forecasting are evaluated. An accelerated adversarial training is developed for AML-based load forecasting. It maintains the robustness, and at the same time is efﬁcient and easy to employ. A strategic framework for AML-based load forecasting is established.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	The role of storage technologies throughout the decarbonisation of the sector-coupled European energy system Marta Victoriaa,b, , Kun Zhua, Tom Brownc, Gorm B. Andresena,b, Martin Greinera,b aDepartment of Engineering, Aarhus University, Inge Lehmanns Gade 10, 8000 Aarhus, Denmark biCLIMATE Interdisciplinary Centre for Climate Change, Aarhus University cInstitute for Automation and Applied Informatics (IAI), Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Forschungszentrum 449, 76344, Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany Abstract We use an open, hourly-resolved, networked model of the European energy system to investigate the storage require- ments under decreasing CO 2emissions targets and several sector-coupling scenarios. For the power system, signi cant storage capacities only emerge for CO 2reductions higher than 80 of 1990 level in that sector. For 95 CO 2reductions, the optimal system includes electric batteries and hydrogen storage energy capacities equivalent to 1.4 and 19.4 times the average hourly electricity demand. Coupling heating and transport sectors enables deeper global CO 2reductions before the required storage capacities become signi cant, which highlights the importance of sector coupling strategies in the transition to low carbon energy systems. A binary selection of storage technologies is consistently found, i.e., electric batteries act as short-term storage to counterbalance solar photovoltaic generation while hydrogen storage smooths wind uctuations. Flexibility from the electric vehicle batteries provided by coupling the transport sector avoid the need for additional stationary batteries and reduce the usage of pumped hydro storage. Coupling the heating sector brings to the system large capacities of thermal energy storage to compensate for the signi cant seasonal variation in heating demand. Keywords: storage, energy system modelling, sector coupling, grid integration of renewables, transmission grid, CO2 emission targets 1. Introduction The IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 C 1 has shown that the European Union s commitments to decrease CO 2emissions, which include a reduction target of 80-95 by 2050 relative to 1990 levels, are not su - cient. Limiting global warming to 1.5 C compared to 2 C or more reduces the risks associated with long-lasting and irreversible changes. To that end, the decarbonisation of our economy must be deep and fast, and net-zero carbon emissions need to be achieved globally by 2050. In that context, the European Commission has recently called for a climate-neutral Europe by 2050 2 . One of the promi- nent strategies to supply Europe s nal energy consump- tion with very low CO 2emissions relies on the installation of vast capacities of Variable Renewable Energy Sources (VRES), i.e., wind and solar photovoltaics. The low gen- eration costs achieved by these technologies allow us to en- visage a future in which VRES supply a signi cant share not only of the electricity demand but of the nal energy consumption. The fundamental challenge of this strategy is how to counterbalance the uctuating generation as we Corresponding author Email address: mvp eng.au.dk (Marta Victoria)approach high renewable penetration. One of the rst an- swers that comes to mind is storage. Using weather-driven renewable energy system mod- elling with hourly resolution and assuming a simple stor- age dispatch algorithm, several authors have identi ed a divergence of the required storage energy capacity when the average renewable generation approaches the average electricity demand 3 5 . In their models, costs are not in- cluded and the required storage energy and power capaci- ties are determined by the most critical situations through- out the year. Moreover, the weather-driven modelling has also been used to investigate the link between the storage energy capacity and the favoured VRES generation, either wind or solar, and vice versa. For instance, storage energy capacities in the range of 6 times the average hourly de- mand are su cient to drastically reduce the number of hours in which VRES generation is not enough to supply demand and, hence, minimise the required backup genera- tion 4 . The reason behind is that the pronounced diurnal pattern of solar generation can be smoothed by such stores which charge during the day and discharge throughout the night. Similarly, the provision of additional short-term storage by allowing smart charging and discharging into the grid of a future European eet of Electric Vehicles Preprint submitted to Energy Conversion and Management October 21, 2019 arXiv:1906.06936v2 physics.soc-ph 18 Oct 2019 (EVs) could ease the integration of large shares of solar electricity. Hydrogen storage with energy capacity in the range of several days of average consumption were found to be adequate to counterbalance wind uctuations in the synoptic time scale 4 . Andresen and coauthors 6 applied the weather-driven modelling to Denmark and investigated the required en- ergy and power capacity of storage to minimise VRES surplus. They found that, for regions where wind is a better resource, only large-scale seasonal storage, e.g.hy- drogen tanks, enables the use of VRES surplus to cover electricity demand at any time. Bussar et al. analysed the possibility of fully decarbonising the electricity generation in the EUMENA (Europe, Middle East, and North Africa regions) using a rule-based dispatch of system components and calculating the required storage capacity through ge- netic optimisation 7, 8 . Weather-driven and rule-based models are very useful to understand the general dynamics of energy systems, but, by neglecting the costs, they can overestimate storage requirements. Besides, it is not ob- vious how to set up the dispatching rules when the power system is coupled with other sectors, as it will be intro- duced later. Schlachtberger and coauthors followed a di erent ap- proach in which they minimised the annual costs of the European power system represented by a network of inter- connected countries 9 . The optimal system con guration includes larger solar capacities in southern countries ac- companied by electric batteries whose discharge time at maximum power was assumed to be 6 hours. Countries in north-western Europe, with better onshore and o shore wind resources, make use of these technologies together with long-term hydrogen storage capacities (1-week dis- charge time is assumed in 9 ) and an extension of the grid infrastructure to allow a synoptic-scale temporal and spatial smoothing of wind
__label__energy	2 Design of Liquid Impregnated Surface with Stable Lubricant layer in Mixed Water Oil Environment for Low Hydrate Adhesion Abhishek Mund, Amit K Nayse, Arindam Das School of Mechanical Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Goa, GEC Campus, Farmagudi, Ponda, Goa, 403401 , India Email: arindam iitgoa.ac.in Abstract: Clathrate hydrate is a naturally occurring ice -like solid which forms in water phase under suitable temperature and pressure conditions, in the presence of one or more hydrophobic molecules. It also forms inside the oil and gas pipes leading to higher pump ing cost, flow blockage and even catastrophic accidents. Engineered surfaces with low hydrate adhesion can provide an effective solution to this problem. Liquid impregnated surfaces is one such example of engineered surfaces which has already shown tremendous potential in reducing the nucleation and adhesion of solids. Here we report the design and synthesis of liquid impregnated surfaces with extremely low hydrate adhesion under the mixed environment of oil and water. The most challenging aspect of designing these surfaces was to stabilize a lubricant layer simultaneously under the water and oil. A detailed methodology to make such lubricant stable surfaces from theoretical perspective was described and experimentally validated for lubricant stabilit y. Experimental measurements on such surfaces showed extremely low hydrate accumulation and one order of magnitude or more reduction in hydrate adhesion force . Keywords: LIS, Hydrate , adhesion, Stability, Omniphobic 3 1. Introduction: Clathrate h ydrates are solid, crystalline solids in which hydrogen -bonded water (host) molecules form molecular cages with diverse configurations such as pentagonal and hexagonal faces , around low -molecular -weight species. To put it another way, gas molecules (guests) are trapped in water cavities (hosts) made up of hydrogen -bonded water molecules. Since its discovery in 1810 by Sir Humphry Davy, Clathrate hydrate particularly gas hydrate were extensively investigated1. Villard2 was the first to discover that hydrates are a broad category of compounds that contain a variety of guest molecules such as methane, ethane, and propane, in 1888. Clathrate hydrates were found both in nature and man -made systems. In nature, clathrate hydra tes form under high pressure and low temperature at the bottom of the sea, in that water is the host and methane is the main guest molecule1. In manmade systems , presence of this hydrates are significantly observed in oil and gas infrastructures, where it forms both inside and outside of fluid transport systems such as pipes, valves etc. Hammerschmidt discovered hydrate in industrial gas flow lines3 in 1934, when particle build -up caused line obstruction. Hydrate forms at the water -hydrocarbon interface in typical oil gas pipelines due to the favorable environmental4 conditions in such system . Moderately high pressure of 5 MPa and comparatively low temperature below 10 present in such systems are perfectly suitable for hydrate for mation. Hydrate phase once form, rapidly grows into to small particle, particle agglomerate s, solid hydrate deposit and eventually leading to hydrate plug inside the p ipelines . Formation of hydrate particles and hydrate plugs creates a major flow assurance problem and sometimes lead s to severe accident s. They can choke or hinder flow lines, slowing operations and, in the worst -case scenario, collapsing pipelines and equipments5. The safe removal of clogged hydrates and the prevention of hydrate plugging are achieved by utiliz ing a substantial proportion of deep -water fluid flow resource s. Exploring and interpreting the pipeline -plugging method of hydrates is significant and pragmatic in the context of economic risk management s 4 goal of preventing hydrate blockage6,7. To mitigate the challenges originating from hydrate formation, anti -agglomerate, thermodynamic inhibitor8, mechanical de -pressurization system9 and heating system s are employed in the industries1. These techniques, meanwhile, are expensive, consume a significant amount of energy and they could possibly have adverse environmental impact. For example, methanol an i nhibitor of hydrate used in large quantity for effective result. It not only increases the material cost (methanol) but also necessitate a complicated and involved separat ion process to get rid of these chemicals from oil and gas phase s. Hence it is worth to find out some environment friendly , energy independent , passive approach t o effectively address this problem. In the past decade, curiosity in passive anti - hydrate coatings that can prevent hydrate growth directly on pipe walls or reduce hydrate adhesion has surged . Two significant passive anti -hydrate coating categories10, namely superhydrophobic and polymeric coatings are frequently being investigated recently by the scientist working in this area. For past several years, engineered surfaces such as Bio-inspired Superhydrophobic lotus leaf surfaces11,12, superoleophobic13, pitcher plant Slippery Liquid Infused Porous Surfaces (SLIPS)14,15 and Lubricant Impregnated Surfaces (LIS)16,17 were widely studied for their superior performance across different engineering applications. These surfaces have shown tremendous potential in reducing ice -adhesion18,19, reducing corrosion20,21, reducing drag forces16, facilitating drop -wise condensation22,23, increased heat tr ansfer in condensation process24 etc. Modified solid -liquid or liquid -liquid contact area and low inherent adhesion forces are prime reason behind such superior performance shown by these surfaces. Due to the low adhesive force and restr icted contact area with liquid phases , solids condensing or nucleating from liquid phase have showed minimal adherence on such surfaces . These surfaces thus expected to provide similar performance in reducing hydrate adhesion with solid pipe - walls in a energy independent way. In recent years a no of research articles has shown superior 5 performance of superhydrophobic surfaces and under oil superhydrophobic surfaces in reduc ing hydrate adhesion25. The functional durability of superhydrophobic surfaces remains a major concern for their use in various applications. Presence of a stable air layer within the surface textur es of Superhydrophobic surfaces (SHS), is critical for its various superior properties . However, d ue to it s high compressibility , low density and low viscosity , this air layer is lost under the droplet impact, water condensation, high pressure liquid environments , and thus rendering these surfaces inefficient or functionally damaged26. LIS and
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Title: Carbon dioxide to carbon nanotube scale-up (Team C2CNT Round 2 Submission extracts nrg cosia CARBON XPRIZE) Team Leader C2CNT : Prof. Stuart Licht Department of Chemistry, George Washington University Washington, DC, 20052, USA Abstract: Team C2CNT s (Carbon dioxide to carbon nanotubes) proprietary technology directly removes the widest range of carbon dioxide from the ecosystem. C2CNT technology simply transforms carbon dioxide into carbon and oxygen, and the carbon produced is permanently removed (stable on the order of geologic time frames). C2CNT technology directly removes, transforms and stores atmospheric (0.04 ) CO 2, and directly removes 5 CO 2 is directly (without pre -concentration) removed from the air, up 5 CO2 (pertinent to the Track B removal of gas power plant CO 2 emissions of this submission). C2CNT technology directly removes, transforms and stores removes 5 CO2 is directly (without pre-concentration) removed from the air, 12 .5 CO 2 (pertinent to the Track A removal of coal power plant CO 2 emissions of this submission), 33 CO 2 (pertinent to the complete removal of CO 2 from cement production plants), or 100 . Document: The Carbon XPrize is an international competition to transform the carbon dioxide from fossil fuel plant emissions to the most valuable product (CarbonXprize.org). Track A is for the most valuable product from a coal plant emission (which includes not only the greenhouse gas CO2, but also ppm levels of SO 2, NOx and CO) and Track B is for the most valuable product from a natural gas power plant emission (which does not include the other pollutants). This document consists of Team C2NCT s Oct. 11, 2017 Round 2 Carbon XPrize Submission and Oct. 12, 2017 Addendum extended extracts). C2CNT s mission: Mining carbon dioxide to rehabilitate the planet. The planet is becoming increasingly unsuitable to support human life due to greenhouse gas global warming. Climate change is also killing off entire species at an accelerating rate. Which headline would you prefer? Last year the average American generated 16 metric tons of CO 2. or Last year the average American generated 1 million dollars of carbon nanotubes and no CO 2. 2 Team C2CNT Round 2 Submission Extracts nrg cosia CARBON XPRIZE Submission Notes Climate change and global warming are a growing threat to the continuity of life on the planet Earth . Climate change caused by increased greenhouse gas levels is killing, and is increasingly killing off ( will be the direct cause of the extinction ) of as much as 50 of the species on our planet by the turn of the century. This is a report by the CARBON XPRIZE Team C2CNT as a Round 2 Submission of the development of the team s proprietary technology to end global warming produced by the principal greenhouse gas carbon dioxide , and remove anthropogenic carbon dioxide which has been released and growing at an alarming rate since the inception of the industrial revolution. Team C2CNT s propri etary technology directly removes the widest range of carbon dioxide from the ecosystem. C2CNT technology simply transforms carbon dioxide into carbon and oxygen, and the carbon produced is permanently removed (stable on the order of geologic time frames). C2CNT technolog y directly removes, transforms and stores a tmospheric (0.04 ) CO 2, and directly removes 5 CO 2 is directly (without pre -concentration) removed from the air, up 5 CO2 (pertinent to the Track B removal of gas power plant CO 2 emissions of this submission). C2CNT technology directly removes, transforms and stores removes 5 CO2 is directly (without pre-concentration) removed from the air, 12.5 CO 2 (pertinent to the Track A removal of coal power plant CO 2 emissions of this submi ssion), 33 CO 2 (pertinent to the complete removal of CO 2 from cement production plants), or 100 . The C2CNT process is very low cost . Even more important, the C2CNT product is an extremely valuable form of carbon (carbon nanotubes). For example, carbon nanotubes are thousands of times more valuable than coal. The low production cost of carbon nanotubes by C2CNT technology is intended to substantially increase their market share to become the clear replacement product of choice for the billion do llar steel and aluminum (due to CNT s much high strength to weight ratio) for products as varied as car bodies to lighter -weight laptop computers. Carbon nanotube s outstanding electrical and thermal conductivity, torsional and blast resistance make them preferred additives to improved, ceramic, cement and opens a wide range of new textiles , such as veneer thin, bullet and taser -proof suits. C2CNT provides a major economic incentive to mine this greenhouse gas and change carbon dioxide from pollutant to desired resource 3 C2CNT TEAM DETAILS Address: George Washington University, Science Technology campus, Ashburn, VA , USA C2CNT TEAM LEADER Prof. Stuart Licht, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University ADDITIONAL C2CNT TEAM MEMBERS SINCE THE JULY 27, 2016 INCEPTION OF THE CARBON XPRIZE Mathew Lefler, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Juan Vicini, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University OTHER CURRENT, L ONG TERM C2CNT TEAM MEMBERS Dr. Marcus Johnson, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Brian Wright, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University PAST AND PRESENT MEMBERS WHO HAVE PARTICIPATED FOR SHORTER PERIODS IN THE C2CNT TEAM Dr. Jason Lau, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Dr. Richa Singhal, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Dr. Jiawen Ren, Richa Singhal, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Xinye Liu , Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Gad Licht, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Parth Contractor , Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Zhikun Wang , Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Mohamed Eltahir, Dept. of Applied Economics and Sustainabilit y Azhar Elahir, Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University Zijun Shao , Dept. of Chemistry George Washington University ABOUT US : The C2CNT team focus is a comprehensive solution to climate change, a principal challenge facing the planet today. In this industrial age, massive quantities of greenhouse gases, principally
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	1 Accurate experimental ( p, ρ, T) data of the (CO 2 O 2) binary system for the development of models for CCS processes Daniel Lozano -Martín1, Gerald U. Akubue1,2, Alejandro Moreau1, Dirk Tuma3, and César R. Chamorro1. 1 Grupo de Termodinámica y Calibración (TERMOCAL), Research Institute on Bioeconomy , Escue la de Ingenierías Industriales, Universidad de Valladolid, Paseo del Cauce, 59, E -47011 Valladolid, Spain. 2 National Centre for Energy Research and Development Mechanical Engineering Department, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, 410001 Enugu State, Nigeria 3 BAM Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -prüfung, D-12200 Berlin, Germany. Abstract The limited availability of accurate experimental data in wide ranges of pressure, temperature , and composition is the main constraining factor for the proper development and assessment of thermodynamic models and equations of state. In the particular case of carbon capture and storage (CCS) processes, there is a clear need for data sets related to the (carbon dioxide oxygen ) mixtures that this work aims to address. This work provides new experimental ( p, ρ, T) data for three binary (CO 2 O 2) mixtures with mole fractions of oxygen x(O2) (0. 05, 0.10, and 0. 20) mol mol-1, in the temperature range T (250 to 375) K and pressure range p (0.5 to 13) MPa. The measurements were performed with a high -precision single -sinker densimeter with magnetic suspension coupling. The density data were obtained with estimated expanded relative uncertainties of 0.02 for the highest densities, and up to 0.3 f or the lowest ones .The results were compared to the corresponding results calculated by the current reference equations of state for this kind of mixtures, namely the E OS-CG (combustion gases) and the GERG -2008 equation of state, respectively. The E OS-CG yields better estimations in density tha n the GERG -2008 equation of state . The results from the EOS -GC model show no systematic temperature dependence. For the GERG -2008 model, however, this criterion i s significantly less fulfilled. 2 Keywords: carbon capture and storage (CCS) ; density of binary mixtures ( CO 2 O2); gravimetric preparation; single -sinker densimeter ; equation of state . Corresponding author e -mail: cescha eii.uva.es. Tel.: 34 98342375 6. Fax: 34 983423363 3 1. Introduction The design and operation of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) processes need reliable thermodynamic models able to accurately describe the behavior of the fluid mixtures of CO 2 with other gases 1 2 . Beside s CO 2, the main components involved in those processes related to CCS technologies are N2, O 2, Ar, H 2O, H2, CO, H 2S, and SO 2. An approved thermodynamic model able to describe fluid mixtures of these components over an extended p,T-region is the GERG -2008 equation of state 3 , which is based on a multi - fluid mixture model and explicit in the reduced Helmholtz free energy. However, this EoS was originally developed for natural gas mixtures and thus does not a priori guarantee a high accuracy for mixtures with a composition far from that of typical natural gas mixtures, such as CCS mixtures with perhaps no methane present in them at all , but with CO 2 as the main compound . Some specific EoS have recently been developed for mixtures involved in CCS processes. Demetriades and Graham 4 propose d a pressure -explicit EoS for mixtures of CO 2 with small quantities (impurities) of N 2, O2, and H 2. The range of validity of this model is for pressures up to 16 MPa and temperatures between 273 K and the critical temperature of CO 2. A recent research work 5 has proposed a specific model for the binary mixture (CO 2 CO). Gernert and Span propose d an equation of state for the calculation of thermodynamic properties of humid gases, combustion gases, and CO 2-rich mixtures typical in CCS processes, the so-called EOS -CG (Equation of State for Combustion Gases and Combustion Gas -like Mixtures) 6 . This equation of state, with a functional structure similar to the GERG -2008 , based on a multi -fluid mixture model explicit in the reduced Helmholtz free energy , has a wider range of validity in temperature and pressure, and more components are considered . The EOS -CG has been developed for 6 constituting pure components: CO 2, N 2, O 2, Ar, H 2O, and CO. Unfortunately, binary specific departure functions were developed (or, in some case, taken from the GERG -2008 EoS ) for only some of the 15 resulting binary mixtures, those for which sufficient ly accur ate experimental data were available,. As for the binary mixture (carbon dioxide oxygen ), no departure function has yet been developed due to limited experimental data. High -accuracy density data are o f great relevance for the development of reliable equations of state for CCS processes 7 . In this work, accurate density measurements for three binary mixtures of carbon dioxide with oxygen ( nominal amount -of-substance fraction x(O2) 0. 05, 0.10, 0.20) are presented. Measurements were 4 performed at temperatures between (2 50 and 375) K and pressures up to 13 MPa , using a single -sinker densimeter with magnetic suspension coupling, which is one of the state -of-the-art methods for density determination over wide ranges of temperature and pressure. In order t o achieve the highest accuracy in composition , the binary mixtures for this investigation were prepared gravimetrically according to the ISO 6142 -1 8 , a method that qualifies for the production of reference materials . The e xperimental results are compared with the calculations by both the GERG -2008 equation of state and the EOS -CG, and also with the limited experimental data available in the literature . 2. Experimental 2.1. Mixture preparation Three (C O2 O2) binary mixtures were prepared at the Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing (Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -prüfung, BAM) in Berlin, Germany, following the recommendations given in the standard ISO 6142 -1 8 . Purity, supplier, molar mass,
__label__energy	1 Performance Analysis of Charging Infrastructure Sharing in UA V and EV-involved Networks Yujie Qin, Mustafa A. Kishk, Member, IEEE , and Mohamed-Slim Alouini, Fellow, IEEE Abstract Electric vehicles (EVs) and unmanned aerial vehicles (UA Vs) show great potential in modern transportation and communication networks, respectively. However, with growing demands for such technologies, the limited energy infrastructure becomes the bottleneck for their future growth. It might be of high cost and low energy efﬁciency for all the operators to each have their own dedicated energy infrastructure, such as charging stations. In this paper, we analyze a wireless charging infras- tructure sharing strategy in UA V and EV-involved networks. We consider a scenario where UA Vs can charge in EV charging stations and pay for the sharing fee. On the EVs side, sharing infrastructure can earn extra proﬁt but their service quality, such as waiting time, might slightly reduce. On the UA Vs side, if renting EV charging stations can achieve an acceptable system performance, say high coverage probability, while considering the cost, they may not need to build their dedicated charging stations. In this case, we use tools from stochastic geometry to model the locations and propose an optimization problem that captures the aforementioned trade-offs between cost or proﬁt and quality of service. Our numerical results show that sharing infrastructure slightly increases the waiting time of EVs, say within 5min, but dramatically decreases the waiting time of drones, say more than 50min, and deploying more charging stations do achieve better performances, but all these better performances are expected to cost more. Index Terms Stochastic geometry, Poisson Point Process, Electric Vehicles, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, Infrastructure shar- ing. I. I NTRODUCTION Electric vehicles (EVs) and unmanned aerial vehicles (UA Vs) have great application potential to achieve green and efﬁcient future transportation 1 . Compared with traditional vehicles, EVs cause less impact on the environment and are more ﬂexible since they can recharge at home during the night. Hence, in the past few decades, EVs and their related infrastructures, such as charging stations, have been widely studied and developed in real life 2 . UA Vs have recently increased in the market due to their high relocation ﬂexibility based on dynamic demands 3 , 4 . They are expected to play an essential rule in next-generation wire- less networks 5 , 6 . UA Vs can be very useful in both rural and urban areas 7 , such as improving the quality of service 8 , providing service to remote Internet of Things users 9 , Yujie Qin and Mohamed-Slim Alouini are with Computer, Electrical and Mathematical Sciences and Engineering (CEMSE) Division, King Abdul- lah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal, 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia Arabia. Mustafa Kishk was with CEMSE, KAUST during this work. Currently he is with the Department of Electronic Engineering, National University of Ireland, Maynooth, W23 F2H6, Ireland. (e-mail: yujie.qin kaust.edu.sa; mustafa.kishk mu.ie; slim.alouini kaust.edu.sa).maintaining connectivity in nature disasters 10 and providing additional capacity 11 . However, UA Vs cannot work without frequent charging, which highly restricts the performance of UA V-enabled wireless networks. Since UA Vs rely on their internal batteries, which are energy limited, their services are likely to be interrupted if the energy runs low. Meanwhile, compared with EVs, UA V-assisting networks are still new, and their infrastructures are poor. While researchers mainly focus on investigating the communication or application parts of UA V-involved networks, the infrastructures of UA Vs, such as the deployment of charging stations, should catch up 7 . The traditional model of single ownership of all the physical infrastructures now faces signiﬁcant challenges: it may be high cost and waste lots of energy. Take charging stations for instance, the cost of building new charging stations includes installation, maintenance, electricity grid distribution, storage 12 , resulting in huge pressure on operators. Meanwhile, it is not energy-efﬁcient for all operators to each have their own grid infrastructure. In the current market environment, infrastructure sharing idea may be a sustainable way to follow. Instead of building dedicated charging stations, operators can consider sharing the charging stations while maintaining an acceptable service quality. In this paper, we explore an infrastructure sharing strategy in the EVs and UA Vs-involved network: EVs operators are willing to share their charging stations with UA Vs as far as their services are acceptable, and UA Vs pay for the sharing. In other words, UA Vs can charge in EV charging stations to avoid the trafﬁc, hence, to achieve a better system performance. However, the charging time may be longer in EV charging stations since they are not designed for UA Vs. We would like to emphasize that we are considering wireless charging in this work which enable using the charging station by two different technologies such as the UA Vs and the EVs. More details are presented later in this section and Section II-D. A. Related Work Literature related to this work can be categorized into (i) design of EV charging stations, (ii) UA V-assisted networks, and (iii) design of infrastructure sharing. We provide a brief introduction to each of them in the following lines. EV charging stations placement and charging schedule. A comprehensive survey on EV transportation was provided in 13 , which was mainly about key technologies, such as energy storage, for transportation electriﬁcation in smart grid scenarios. EV charging infrastructure deployment was analyzed in 14 . Optimization of waiting time for EVs isarXiv:2208.06782v1 eess.SY 14 Aug 2022 2 studied in 15 using a fuzzy inference system. A Japanese case study about quick charging of EVs based on waiting time and cost-beneﬁt analyses is investigated in 16 . The authors studied the infrastructure placement from the perspective of the agent and used the road network data of the Chicagoland area. Authors in 17 presented an optimization of minimum plug-in electric vehicles (PEV) infrastructure deployment for highway corridors. Their models allowed for a straightforward analysis despite uncertain input data such as the uncertainty of unavailable information on PEV drivers behavior
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	https: doi.org 10.1088 1361-648X aca579 On the photovoltaic effect asymmetry in ferroelectrics S Semak1,2, V Kapustianyk1, Yu Eliyashevskyy1, O Bovgyra1, M Kovalenko1, U Mostovoi1, B Doudin2 and B Kundys2, 1Faculty of Physics, Ivan Franko National University of Lviv, Dragomanova 50, Lviv, UA79005, Ukraine 2Université de Strasbourg, CNRS, Institut de Physique et Chimie des Matériaux de Strasbourg, UMR 7504, 23 rue du Loess, F-67000 Strasbourg, FrancePhotovoltaic effect asymmetry S. Semak, V. Kapustianyk, Yu. Eliyashevskyy, O. Bovgyra, M. Kovalenko, U. Mostovoi, B. Doudin and B. Kundys, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 35 (2023) 094001Bulk photovoltaic effect Abstract Despite symmetrical polarization, the magnitude of a light-induced voltage is known to be asymmetric with respect to poling sign in many photovoltaic (PV) ferroelectrics (FEs). This asymmetry remains unclear and is often attributed to extrinsic effects. We sho w here for the first time that such an asymmetry can be intrinsic, steaming from the superposition of asymmetries of internal FE bias and electro-piezo-strictive deformation. This hypothesis is confirmed by the observed decrease of PV asymmetry for smaller FE bias. Moreover, the both PV effect and remanent polarization are found to increase under vacuum-induced expansion and to decrease for gas-induced compression, with tens percents tunability. The change in cations positions under pressure is analysed through the first-principle density functional theory calculations. The reported properties pro vide key insight for FE-based solar elements optimization. Keyw ords: strains, photovoltaicity, ferroelectrics, piezoelectric 1 . Introduction Harvesting solar energy with semiconductor-based photovol- taic (PV) cells is ultimately approaching its single bandgap fundamental limit 1,2 pushing for increasingly complex multi-bandgap architectures. This issue can be overcome using ferroelectric (FE) PV materials where an ability of each single unit cell to act as a PV junction inspired research for dec- ades. Historically the PV properties in non-centrosymmetric crystals were first reported by Chynoweth 3 for BaTiO 3. Two years later it was also observed in CdTe 4, 5 films and ZnS single crystals 6 . Because the photovoltages involved exceeded the bandgap energy of the material, the effect was Author to whom any correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: kundysATipcms.frfist termed anomalous photovoltaic effect by Lempicki 7 . The reported photoconducti vity in SbSI 8 , electro-optical coupling 9 and ferroelectricity 10 allowed also to include this crystal 11 to the PV FE class. Due to its anisotropic nature and intrinsic origin the PV response was afterwards termed to be a bulk photovoltaic effect by Glass et al 12 . Other PV FEs have been reported since then and theoret- ical models proposed 13 23 . A revival 24 28 in the field only occurred after the discovery of PV effects in multiferroic BiFeO 3by Choi et al 29 triggering many other reports in new acentric compounds 26,30 34 . The recent progress in PV efficienc y in the Bi 2FeCrO 6films 35 and other per- ovskite compounds 36 38 , including 2D layers 39, 40 , can make the FEs cells real competitors for conventional PVs in the near future. To make this happen, a better understanding of the physical mechanisms behind the PV response in FEs 1Why photovoltaic effect depends on poling sign in ferroelectrics? Invited Paper is essential. A compelling strategy to accomplish this is to find a model compound, preferably in a single crystal form to sort-out possible extrinsic effects occurring in thin films 41 and ceramics 42 . In this regard, we report here on the PV properties of the Pb (Mg 1 3Nb2 3)0.70Ti0.30 O3(PMN-PT) FE crystal and focus our study on their correlation with its deform- ation properties. Our study is motivated by potential advant- ages development of FEs possessing above-bandgap photo- voltages, stress sensitivity and electric field tunability. 2. Experimental detail Some FE compounds of the PMN PT family with the gen- eral formula of Pb Mg 1 3Nb2 3)xTi1 x O3were known to become PV after WO 3doping 23 and recently the PV ef fect has been also reported for two compounds with stoi- chiometry at the vicinity of the morphotropic phase bound- ary region 33,43,44 . Crystals of this type are avail- able commercially owing to their important electro-optical 45 47 and piezoelectric properties having a wide range of applications 48 50 . In this work a single crystal of Pb (Mg 1 3Nb2 3)0.70Ti0.30 O3was ordered from Crystal GmbH (Germany) and its composition was independently verified by energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDS). The EDS spec- trum confirmed the absence of significant amounts of impur- ities and the exact content was found to be in a correspond- ence with the data of the supplier. Crystals of 0.3 mm in thickness, (001) orientation with edges along 010 and 100 were cut to form a plate 1.95 mm 0.125 mm. The elec- trodes were made of silver paste and FE loops were measured along the longest sample dimension ( 010 ) using a home- made quasi-static FE tracer at 5.4 mHz. A light emitting diode M365FP1 (Thorlabs) at 356 nm wavelength and 9 nm band- width was used as a light source calibrated with a Thorlabs power meter (PM100USB). The light-intensity dependence was measured by increasing intensity with 2.97 mW cm 2 steps taken at 330 ms intervals. The deformation was measured in-situ with the FE loop along the same poling direction 010 using a zigzag-type resistive strain gauge glued to the sample surface. 3. Results and discussions 3.1 . PV asymmetry for positive and negative poling To access the intrinsic PV properties and their poling depend- ence the hysteresis loop was first measured in darkness to check ferroelectricity and to stabilize specific FE remanent states (figure 1(a)). Because different FE states may exhibit dif ferent PV effects, this procedure must be well defined in order to ensure data reproducibility. If the FE loop is not measurable due to leakage or electric breakdown, at least the information on dielectric loss (or conductivity) along with pre-poling fields must accompany the PV characterization. In our case, the as recorded FE loops demonstrated a well- defined hysteresis superposed to a
__label__energy	1 Global Optimization of Offshore Wind Farm Collection Systems Juan-Andrés Pérez-Rúa, Mathias Stolpe, Kaushik Das, Member, IEEE and Nicolaos A. Cutululis, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract A mathematical program for global optimization of the cable layout of Offshore Wind Farms (OWFs) is presented. The model consists on a Mixed Integer Linear Program (MILP). Modern branch-and-cut solvers are able to solve large-scale instances, deﬁned by more than hundred Wind Turbines (WTs), and a reasonable number of Offshore Substations (OSSs). In addition to the MILP model to optimize total cable length or initial investment, a pre-processing strategy is proposed in order to incorporate total electrical power losses into the objective function. High ﬁdelity models are adapted to calculate cables current capacities, spatial currents. The MILP model is embedded in an iterative algorithmic framework, solving a sequence of problems with increasing search space size. The search space is deﬁned as a set of underlying candidate arcs. The applicability of the method is illustrated through 10case studies of real-world large-scale wind farms. Results show that: (i) feasible points are obtained in seconds, (ii) points with an imposed maximum tolerance near the global optimum are calculated in a reasonable computational time in the order of hours, and (iii) the proposed method compares favorably against state-of-the-art method available in literature. Index Terms Offshore wind energy, Collection system layout design, Global optimization, Mixed integer linear programming, Medium voltage submarine cables, Heuristics. NOMENCLATURE Acronyms OWF(s) Offshore Wind Farm(s). WT(s) Wind Turbines(s). OSS(s) Offshore Substation(s). BIP Binary Integer Programming. MILP Mixed Integer Linear Programming. MIQP Mixed Integer Quadratic Programming. MINLP Mixed Integer Nonlinear Programming. SCETM Single-Core Equivalent Thermal Model. NP Non-Deterministic Polynomial. L Length. LP Length plus total Power losses. I Initial investment. IP Investment plus total Power losses. WDS West of Duddon Sands. TH Thanet. LA London Array. HR1 Horns Rev 1. O Ormonde. DT DanTysk. Juan-Andrés Pérez-Rúa, Mathias Stolpe, Kaushik Das, and Nicolaos A. Cutululis are with the DTU Wind Energy, Technical University of Denmark, Frederiksborgvej 399, 4000 Roskilde, Denmark (e-mail: juru dtu.dk)Parameters (non-sets) nw Number of wind turbines. no Number of offshore substations. m Total number of years. aij Arc connecting point itoj(i;j). dij Euclidean norm for arc (i;j). ut Capacity of cable tin number of wind turbines. cct Metric capital cost of cable t. cpt Metric installation cost of cable t. It Steady-state rated current of cable t. Vn Nominal line-to-line voltage of the system. Pn Nominal power of the wind turbines. Srt Nominal power of cable t. t Propagation constant of cable t. Zct Characteristic impedance of cable t. zt Metric series impedance of cable t. yt Metric admittance of cable t. Ik ij;t Nominal phasor current of arc (i;j)using cable t, whenkwind turbines are connected. Sk ij;t Nominal power of arc (i;j)using cable t, when kwind turbines are connected. p!Power produced by a wind turbine at !hour-slot. f!;k ij Power ﬂow in arc (i;j)at!hour-slot, whenkwind turbines are connected. I!;k ij;t Phasor current through arc (i;j)using cablet, at !hour-slot, when kwind turbines are connected. 1 Screen losses factor. 2 Armouring losses factor. Wdt Metric dielectric loss of cable t. Rt Metric electrical resistance of cable t. l ;k ij;t Annual total power losses through arc (i;j)using cablet, at year , whenkwind turbines are co- nnected. U Capacity of the biggest cable available given as maximum number of supportable wind turbines. r Discount rate. ck ij Metric cost of arc (i;j), whenkwind turbines are connected. Maximum number of feeders per offshore substa- tion. Loading symmetry coefﬁcient for offshore subs- tations. Number of wind turbines arcs set to a wind turbi- ne. f Number of wind turbines arcs set to a wind turbi- ne for the feasibility problem.arXiv:1907.02371v3 math.OC 6 Nov 2019 2 fmin Algorithm parameters for the feasibility problem. f ; fmax o Number of wind turbines arcs set to a wind turbi- ne for the global optimization problem. omin Algorithm parameters for the global opt. problem. o ; omax Required relative optimality gap. Parameters (sets) No Set of offshore substations. Nw Set of wind turbines. N Set of offshore substations and wind turbines. G Weighted directed graph. A Set of available arcs. D Set of arcs weights. T Set of available cables. U Set of cables capacities in wind turbines number. Cc Set of cables capital expenditures costs. Cp Set of cables installation costs. Set of hours-slot for a year . M Set of operational years. Gr First reduced graph. Ar Set of ﬁrst reduced arcs. Set of crossing pairs arcs. i Set of wind turbines connected to i. G0 r Second reduced graph. A0 r Set of second reduced arcs. Variables xij Binary variable to activate arc (i;j). xij;t Binary variable to select optimum cable type t for arc (i;j). yk ij Binary variable to activate arc (i;j), whenkwind turbines are connected. i Integer variable of number of wind turbines co- nnected to offshore substation i. Optimization output (non-sets) kf Calculated gap at iteration kf. ko Calculated gap at iteration ko. kg Recalculated gap at iteration kg. Optimization output (sets) I Set of ﬁrst feasible solution. Oko Set of feasible solution at iteration ko. ko Set of candidate arcs at iteration ko. Zko Set of active variables xij 1 of the problem deﬁned in the iteration ko. Subscripts i Element in the set N. j Element in the set N. ij Arc(i;j)with tail atiand head at j. kf Iteration for the feasibility problem. ko Iteration for the global optimization problem. kg Iteration for the general problem. t Cable type in the set T.Superscripts k Number of turbines connected in (i;j). ! Hour-slot2 . Year2M. I. I NTRODUCTION OFFSHORE wind energy represents a backbone technology towards the transition to power systems fully based on renewable energy. After the invention, and experimentation age during the 1990s, the commercialization and development period is fundamentally focused on turning this technology into not only an environmentally sustainable paradigm, but also ﬁnancially competitive compared to other classic, and emergent types of energy generation. The share of Offshore Wind Farms (OWFs)
__label__energy	SciGRID_gas - Data Model of the European Gas Transport Network. Adam Pluta1, Medjroubi Wided2, Jan Diettrich1, Jan Dasenbrock1, Hendrik-Pieter Tetens2, and Javier E. Sandoval2 1 Institute of Networked Energy Systems German Aerospace Center (DLR) Oldenburg, Germany Adam.Pluta dlr.de Abstract The current transition in the European energy sector towards climate neutrality requires detailed and reliable energy system modeling. The quality and relevance of the energy system modeling highly depend on the availability and quality of model input datasets. However, detailed and reliable datasets, especially for energy infrastructure, are still missing. In this contribution, we present our approach to developing an open-source and open-data model of the gas transport network in Europe. Various freely available data sources were used to collect gas transport datasets and their attributes. The resulting datasets of the various data sources were processed, and unique elements were merged together. Statistical and heuristic methods were used to generate missing network element attributes. As a result, we successfully created a gas transport network model only using open-source data. The SciGRID_gas model contains 237.000km of pipeline data which is a very good approximation to know length values. In addition, datasets of compressor stations, LNG terminals, storage, production sides, gas power plants, border points, and demand time series are provided. Finally, we have discussed data gaps and how they can potentially be closed. 1 Introduction The most significant shares of gross energy consumption in Europe in 2019 were held by oil and petroleum products (34.5 ), followed by natural gas (23.1 ) representing almost 60 of energy consumption Eur21b . The high share of natural gas in the energy mix reflects its essential role as an energy carrier and the need to decarbonize sectors where it is used as a fuel source. This will be achieved mainly by ramping up the integration of renewable energy sources (RES) in the energy system. In this context, new flexibility concepts are needed to integrate higher RES shares while maintaining energy supply stability and reliability. Such flexibilities are the Power-to-X (P2X) technologies combined with energy storage SB15 . P2X refers to various processes to convert and store electricity using surplus RES electric power to seasonally and spatially balance energy. A promising P2X technology is power-to-gas (P2G) which has a vast potential in decarbonizing different energy sectors such as heating and transport. P2X uses surplus electrical power to produce hydrogen via water 1 13arXiv:2201.08827v1 physics.soc-ph 21 Jan 2022 electrolysis SSZ21,KKT 21,SGR 15 . Hydrogen can then be used as a fuel directly or converted to LPG, syngas, or methane. The produced gas can then be transported using the current gas transport network. Despite the importance of modeling and analysis of the gas sector and its interactions with other energy sectors, no reliable datasets describing the gas transport grid exist. Examples of available datasets are limited to single countries and do not provide details of the grid components. Such examples are the LKD-EU dataset for Germany KKS 17b and the National Grid dataset for the UK nat20 . The lack of datasets motivated us to initiate the SciGRID_gas project PM18 at the DLR Institute of Networked Energy Systems. The goal of the SciGRID_gas project is to derive a reliable and detailed dataset for the gas transport grid in Europe which can be used for modeling and analysis purposes. In practice, the source code of the data model, the geo-referenced datasets describing the gas transport grid as well as the documentation, are made available under open source licences. In order to use SciGRID_gas in the simulation of energy systems, the integration of the datasets in existing energy system models such as open_eGo ,PyPSA, and pandapipes is planned. With the SciGRID_gas data model, we would like to answer the following research questions: Can we build a reliable data model for the European gas transport grid using only publicly available data? Is the amount of available parameter data sufficient to estimate missing parameter data via heuristics and statistical methods? This contribution is structured as follows: In Chapter2, we discuss the data sources used for constructing the open-source gas transport network model. This is followed by the discussion of the model architecture in Chapter3. Chapter4 gives a short overview of some suitable methods for creating the model. Due to the page number limitation, more detailed information is also available in the respective model documentation, which is accessible online PM18 . Chapter5 presents our model s graphical and statistical results. This is followed by the discussion in Chapter6 and the conclusion and outlook in Chapter7. 2 Data sources Obtaining reliable open-source data of the gas transport system is a challenging task. The grid data of gas Transmission System Operators (TSOs1) are commonly not standardized, nor are they freely accessible Ent20 . Data are generally not geo-referenced and mainly available as PDF maps. Most individual TSOs are not willing to share their data due to competitive reasons. Within the SciGRID_gas project, we have gathered freely available data from different sources. The most relevant are presented below. In the subsection name, we first indicate the source of the dataset (ex. Web Search) followed by the name (ex. INET) we gave the dataset in the SciGRID_gas project. 2.1 Web Search - INET We carried out a web search on all gas network components and compiled the gathered data into the INET dataset. The data stems from TSO press releases, TSO transparency platforms, and TSO public data. Some TSO information had to be made available by the TSOs due to EU regulations The13 . Other information has been made 1The European operators of the gas transmission (transport) grid are associated in the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas (EntsoG) 2 13 public as part of a company s self-presentation and advertisement. The collected information includes data on network components. This includes their positions but also relevant energy modeling parameters, like diameter, capacity, power, pressure, etc. 2.2 German gas model - LKD Thelong-term planning and short-term optimization dataset (LKD) KKS 17a contains geo-referenced data on gas
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	Offshore Wind Integration in the North Sea: The Benefits of an Offshore Grid and Floating Wind 1stPhilipp Glaum Institute of Energy Technology Technische Universit at Berlin Berlin, Germany p.glaum tu-berlin.de2ndFabian Neumann Institute of Energy Technology Technische Universit at Berlin Berlin, Germany f.neumann tu-berlin.de3rdTom Brown Institute of Energy Technology Technische Universit at Berlin Berlin, Germany t.brown tu-berlin.de Abstract Wind energy has become increasingly important for meeting Europe s energy needs. While onshore wind expansion faces public acceptance problems, for offshore wind the European Commission has introduced ambitious goals to increase capacity from 15 GW to 300 GW in 2050. Incorporating more offshore wind electricity into the power grid may offer a more widely accepted way to satisfy Europe s energy demand. In particular, the North Sea region has large potential for offshore wind generation. However, to fully exploit the wind potential in the North Sea, the grid integration of offshore wind and floating wind turbines are vital, especially when onshore wind capacity and onshore grid expansion are constrained. For the grid integration, a meshed offshore grid can offer a viable alternative to the standard direct connection of offshore wind parks to the nearest point on land combined with point-to-point HVDC connections. In this paper we investigate the benefits of having a meshed offshore grid in the North Sea and considering floating wind besides fixed-bottom wind installations. In our analysis, we look at eight different scenarios, where onshore wind potentials and onshore line expansion are limited, to explore the effects of low public acceptance. Our results demonstrate that the presence of an offshore grid can reduce total system costs by up to 2.6 bn C a. In the scenarios with an offshore meshed grid 8 more offshore wind capacities are built compared to the scenarios without a meshed grid. Furthermore, the analysis shows that if onshore wind potentials are restricted, floating wind turbines play a key role and compensate for lacking onshore wind capacities. Index Terms offshore wind, offshore grid, floating wind, energy system, North Sea region I. I NTRODUCTION The European Commission has outlined a plan to signifi- cantly increase the capacity of offshore wind power generation in Europe from 15 GW in 2021 to approximately 300 GW in 2050 1 . To supply Europe s energy needs, the demand for offshore wind turbines is further exacerbated by a decreasing viability of onshore wind power due to and growing opposition from local communities and less favourable wind conditions 2 . Especially the North Sea Region (NSR) with its rich offshore wind generation potential is expected to play a pivotal role in achieving these expansion targets, and is expected to lead Europe s continental energy transition 3 . It is estimated that the NSR has a sizeable potential of more than 635 GW for offshore wind generation capacities 4 . Furthermore, NSR is surrounded by multiple countries with a joint population of 200 million and energy-intensive industries accounting forroughly 60 of Europe s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 3 . As part of the North Sea Energy Cooperation, the European Union (EU) has set ambitious targets to build at least 260 GW of offshore wind energy by 2050 and 76 GW by 2030 in the NSR 5 . While currently fixed-bottom turbines are the norm in the offshore wind industry, considering floating wind turbines could unlock further potentials in the NSR aiding the energy transition to net-zero emissions. Floating wind turbines represent the new frontier in the offshore wind industry 6 . While floating wind installations in Europe are still rare, the market for this technology is rapidly emerging, with many projects planned to be operational by 2030 7 . Floating wind turbine has the potential to unlock resources at previously inaccessible water depths, further expanding the potential for offshore wind power generation 8 . Besides accessing the offshore wind potential, an efficient integration the offshore wind energy is essential. Consequently, the EU recognizes the development of offshore wind integration and offshore grid infrastructure in the North Sea a long-standing priority 9 . Current national approaches to integrate offshore wind farms involve connecting each farm with point-to-point con- nections designed to transport the maximum output of the wind farm directly to designated onshore locations. However, this approach results in partially unused connections when the farm operates below its maximum line capacity. The connection of multiple offshore wind farms in a meshed offshore power grid could offer an alternative to direct point-to-point connections. An offshore grid may offer several additional benefits like (1) network resilience for wind integration, (2) increased capacity for cross-border trade, (3) fewer, larger assets which can reduce overall capital cost 10 . Moreover, the inclusion of offshore energy hub facilities can increase the offshore wind capacity and, when combined with hydrogen production, can reduce the curtailment of offshore wind 11 . The North Sea Wind Power Hub, a consortium of three transmission system operators (TSOs) from North Sea coun- tries, seeks to play a major role in developing integrated systems in the North Sea with offshore hubs 12 . Their project has been granted the status of a Project of Common Interest by the European Union, and it has confirmed the technical feasibility of an offshore power hub and grid in the North Sea. However, the deployment of offshore projects in the NortharXiv:2305.01996v2 physics.soc-ph 8 Jun 2023 Sea still faces several barriers, including planning across assets and countries, and uncertainty about responsibility regarding maritime space 4 . Several studies have investigated the integration of offshore wind in the North Sea region (NSR) with an offshore grid, using energy optimization models or simulations to analyze the benefits of such a grid 11 , 13 15 . All of these studies demonstrate an increased offshore wind capacities built when an offshore grid can be leveraged. For instance, the analysis by Gea-Berm udez et al. 13 obtained total system cost savings of approximately 1 bn C per year for the model incorporating an offshore grid. Moreover, in their analysis, the offshore grid leads
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	1 Coordinating Flexible Ramping Products with Dynamics of the Natural Gas Network Reza Bayani, Student Member, IEEE and Saeed D. Manshadi, Member, IEEE Abstract In electricity networks with high penetration levels of renewable resources, Flexible Ramping Products (FRPs) are among the utilized measures for dealing with the potential ﬂuctuations in the net demand. This paper investigates the impacts of FRPs on the operation of interdependent electricity and natural gas networks. To accurately model and reﬂect the effects of variations in the natural gas fuel demand on the natural gas network, a dynamic Optimal Gas Flow (OGF) formulation is utilized. The non-convex dynamic model of the natural gas system is represented in a convex form via a tight relaxation scheme. An improved distributed optimization method is proposed to solve the coordinated operation problem in a privacy-preserving manner, where the two infrastructures only share limited information. We introduce the Inexact Varying Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (IV-ADMM) and show that compared with the classic ADMM, it converges considerably faster and in fewer iterations. Through a comparison of day-ahead and real-time operation planning results, it is concluded that without accounting for natural gas network dynamics, the FRP model is not a trustworthy tool in day-ahead planning against uncertainties. Index Terms ﬂexible ramping product, natural gas, coordinated operation, distributed optimization, convex relaxation NOMENCLATURE Indices, Sets, and Superscripts b;B Buses in the electricity network c;C Compressors in the natural gas network g;G;G Generation units in the electricity network h;H;H Heat demand in the natural gas network j;J;J Junctions in the natural gas network l;L;L Lines in the electricity network m;M Pipe segments in the natural gas network p;P Pipes in the natural gas network s;S;S Natural gas suppliers t;T Time steps u;U;U Gas-ﬁred units v;V;V Solar photovoltaic units w;W;W Wind turbine units Variables d Natural gas demand in the natural gas network f Mass ﬂow rate of natural gas p Dispatched electricity power of units loads q Natural gas supplier output r Flexible ramping product of gas-ﬁred units V oltage angle of electricity bus Pressure of natural gas within pipelines junctions ; ; ; Dual variables Reza Bayani is with University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA, and San Diego State University. Saeed D. Manshadi is with San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 92182, USA. e-mail: rbayani ucsd.edu; smanshadi sdsu.edu.I. I NTRODUCTION ONE of the inherent characteristics of renewable energy sources (RESs) is their non-dispatchable volatile power generation. In a RES integrated electricity network, net demand is deﬁned as the total demand minus the total generation of non-dispatchable units. With the rise in the penetration level of RESs in an electricity network, the variations in the net demand will increase. Thus, it is necessary to leverage dispatchable generation units to mitigate the challenges introduced by the extensive RES penetration 1 . Failure to follow the net demand imposes undesirable economical and operational consequences on the system operator such as ﬂuctuations in market price and load shedding 2 . In various research works, Flexible Ramping Products (FRPs) are investigated as an effective means of meeting net demand ﬂuctuations in a RES integrated system. The successful implementation of the ﬂexible ramp constraint in these studies suggests that a mix of operational, market, and policy solutions are required to provide systemic ability to meet uncertainties in RES generation. A.Background and Motivation Natural gas-ﬁred generation units are practically the main source of electricity network ﬂexibility due to their intrinsic fast ramping up down rates. According to the Energy Information Administration, natural gas is the prevalent source of electric power generation in the United States. The natural gas-based electricity generation is projected to steadily account for more than a third of the total power generation in the United States over the next 30 years 3 . Based on this report, the share of RESs is expected to double by 2050 (i.e. from the currently 21 share of electricity generation to 42 ), replacing natural gas as the leader of electrical power source types. The current work is motivated by these reports, which highlight the growing importance of FRPs as a measure to facilitate renewable integration in an electricity network dominated by gas-ﬁred units. Some independent system operators such as CAISO have added FRPs to their markets to enhance generation ﬂexibility 4 . The beneﬁts of utilizing thermal units as sources of ramping services, in combination with energy storage systems and demand response in providing ﬂexible generation are studied in 5 . Electric vehicles 6 , spinning reserve services 7 , and bulk storage systems 8 are also investigated as means of offering FRPs in the literature. Other aspects of FRPs such as transmission expansion planning considering ramping requirements 9 , ramping resources in day-ahead market 10 , and non-deterministic ﬂexible ramp reserves 11 are studied in the literature as well.arXiv:2208.00036v1 eess.SY 29 Jul 2022 2 B.The Gap in the Existing Literature From the ﬂow equation point of view, the Optimal Gas Flow (OGF) problem utilized in the existing literature of coordinated operation problem is best categorized as steady-state and dynamic models. The coordinated operation problem of interconnected electricity and natural gas networks has been extensively investigated such as security-constrained approach 12 , high renewable penetration case 13 , and a convex relaxation method 14 . However, these works consider natural gas steady-state model, which fails to properly model how the natural gas network dynamics respond to changes in the demand side 15 . Unlike the electricity network, the natural gas network does not serve the variations in demand with instantaneous adjustments in supply . In a natural gas network that supplies the fuel demand of gas-ﬁred units, the amount of gas withdrawn from pipelines is subject to variations. Consequently, it is crucial to utilize accurate models for the dynamics of natural gas within pipelines and ﬁgure out how changes in demand are served through the gas stored in the pipelines. Coordination of the electricity and natural gas networks with dynamic OGF model is investigated thoroughly with
__label__energy	Multi-agent Battery Storage Management using MPC-based Reinforcement Learning Arash Bahari Kordabad, Wenqi Cai, Sebastien Gros Abstract In this paper, we present the use of Model Pre- dictive Control (MPC) based on Reinforcement Learning (RL) to ﬁnd the optimal policy for a multi-agent battery storage system. A time-varying prediction of the power price and production-demand uncertainty are considered. We focus on optimizing an economic objective cost while avoiding very low or very high state of charge, which can damage the battery. We consider the bounded power provided by the main grid and the constraints on the power input and state of each agent. A parametrized MPC-scheme is used as a function approximator for the deterministic policy gradient method and RL optimizes the closed-loop performance by updating the parameters. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed method is able to tackle the constraints and deliver the optimal policy. I. INTRODUCTION Increasingly many electricity consumers actively participate in the power system through bidirectional power trades 1 . In order to improve the efﬁciency of power transmission and the power quality, one of the key technologies is based on the Energy Storage Systems (ESS) 2 . A multi-agent battery storage system, usually includes several batteries that are connected to a main grid. The main grid exchanges the power with all of the batteries and the batteries attempt to optimize their own cost. Since the total power exchanged by the main grid is limited at each time, ﬁnding an optimal policy that satisﬁes this restriction is challenging. Making decisions for the power system to optimize an eco- nomic cost in the presence of different forms of uncertainties is the object of recent publications 3 , 4 . In smart grids, the uncertainties mainly arise from the imperfect forecasts of the long-term prices and the power production-demand. Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers tools for tackling Markov Decision Processes (MDP) without having an accurate knowledge of the probability distribution underlying the state transition 5 , 6 . RL seeks to optimize the parameters underlying a given policy in view of minimizing the expected sum of a given stage cost. RL methods are usually either directly based on an approximation of the optimal policy or indirectly based on an approximation of the action-value function. Policy gradient methods directly attempt to ﬁnd the optimal policy parameters by optimizing the closed- loop performance. Q-learning and Least Squares Temporal Different (LSTD) are among the algorithms that capture the action-value function 7 . Regarding the approximation of The authors are with Department of Engineering Cybernet- ics, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway. E-mail: fArash.b.kordabad, wenqi.cai, sebastien.gros g ntnu.nothe generic optimal policy and optimal action-value function, Fuzzy Neural Network and Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are common choices 8 . In the smart grids context, usually there are reasonable forecasts of the statistics of the uncertainties and a knowledge of the systems dynamics. Therefore, using a structured function approximation such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) scheme can be beneﬁcial. Indeed, MPC uses the predicted information and model to provide a reasonable but usually suboptimal policy 9 . Moreover, MPC is able to handle the high-dimensionality of the forecasts. In 10 , it is shown that adjusting the model, cost, and constraints of the MPC could achieve the best closed-loop performance, and RL is proposed as a possible approach to perform that adjustment in practice. Recent researches have developed further the combination of RL and MPC (see e.g. 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 ). In this paper, considering the time-varying prediction of the spot market and the production-demand uncertainty, we use an MPC-scheme to minimize the running cost of the system, while penalizing extreme State-of-Charge (SOC). A low- level controller monitors the SOC in real time and prevents violating the constraints by buying or selling more power if needed 16 . We suppose that all the agents are connected to a main grid, and each battery stores or releases a limited amount of power at every time instant. The deterministic policy gradient method and the LSTD method are adopted to update the policy parameters and action-value parameters, respectively. The simulation results show that our proposed MPC-based RL method is capable of ﬁnding the optimal MPC parameters for the multi-agent battery storage system. The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section II provides the multi-agent battery storage dynamics and details the economic objective and constraints of the problem. Section III formulates the centralized MPC-scheme method via the MPC-based policy and it presents the policy gradient method that used to ﬁnd the optimal policy. Section IV presents the simulations and section V delivers a conclusion. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION In this section, we formulate the battery storage dynamics, the economic objective function with state constraints for a multi-agent system, and peak power constraints over time. A. Dynamics Photovoltaic (PV) battery systems allow households to participate in a more sustainable energy system ( 3 ). ThearXiv:2106.03541v1 eess.SY 7 Jun 2021 battery storage dynamics can be written as the following linear system: soci k 1 soci k i i k bi k si k ; (1) wherei2 1;:::;n is theithbattery,nis the number of batteries, subscript k 0;1;::: denotes the physical time, soci k2 0;1 is the State-of-Charge (SOC) of the battery and the interval 0;1 represents the SOC levels considered as non-damaging for the battery (typically 20 -80 range of the physical SOC). Constant iis a positive value that reﬂects the battery size. Process noise i k N i; i is the difference between the local power production-demand over the sampling time interval k;k 1 , which for the sake of simplicity is considered as a Normal centred random variable, where iand iare the mean and variance of the Gaussian distribution. Input bi k(si k)2 0; Ui is the average power bought (sold) from (to) the power grid over time interval k;k 1 , where Uiis the bound for the buying (selling) energy for the ithbattery. Fig. 1 illustrates the multi- agent
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	Optimizing the Generation and Transmission Capacity of Offshore Wind Parks under Weather Uncertainty David Kr oger , Jan Peper, Nils Offermann, Christian Rehtanz Institute of Energy Systems, Energy Efficiency and Energy Economics TU Dortmund University, Dortmund, Germany 2023 Abstract Offshore wind power in the North Sea is considered a main pillar in Europe s future energy system. A key challenge lies in determining the optimal spatial capacity allocation of offshore wind parks in combination with the dimensioning and layout of the connecting high-voltage direct current grid infrastructure. To determine economically cost optimal con- figurations, we apply an integrated capacity and transmission expansion problem within a pan-European electricity market and transmission grid model with a high spatial and temporal granularity. By conducting sce- nario analysis for the year 2030 with a gradually increasing CO 2price, possible offshore expansion paths are derived and presented. Special emphasis is laid on the effects of weather uncertainty by incorporating data from 21 historical weather years in the analysis. Two key findings are (i) an expansion in addition to the existing offshore wind capacity of 0 GW (136 tCO 2), 12 GW (159 tCO 2) and 30 GW (186 tCO 2) dependent on the underlying CO 2price. (ii) A strong sensitivity of the results towards the underlying weather data highlighting the importance of incorporating multiple weather years. Keywords. Generation and Transmission Capacity Expansion Plan- ning, HVDC transmission, Offshore wind power, pan-European electric- ity markets Corresponding author. david.kroeger tu-dortmund.de 1arXiv:2311.17981v1 eess.SY 29 Nov 2023 1 Offshore Wind Power in the North Sea The North Sea is a shelf sea in northwestern Europe that is connected to the Atlantic in the south and the Norwegian Sea in the north 1 . In total, the North Sea covers an area of approximately 570.000 km2with an average water depth of 94 m 1 . However, in the areas south of the axis Scarborough , Doggerbank andJ utlandbank , the water depth is generally less than 50 m 1, 2 . Along the coastal regions of Great Britain, France, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway around 80 million people live which makes the North Sea an exceptionally important economic area 3 . Overall, the shallow waters, the close proximity to population centers in Europe as well as high wind availability make the North Sea an outstanding area for future offshore wind power production. Renewable energy source (RES) production from offshore wind turbines began in the early 1990s in Denmark, Sweden and Netherlands 3 . Since then, the total installed capacity of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea has been expanded to almost 20 GW (2020) which constitutes 78 of the total wind offshore capacity in Europe 4 . Due to techno-economical, regulatory, ecological and safety aspects, only a fraction of the total area covered by the North Sea is viable for the further development of offshore wind parks (OWPs). Besides already existing oil, natural gas, electricity and communication infras- tructures, other commercial ventures such as sand and gravel mining, fishing, merchant shipping and tourism further restrict the remaining available area for OWPs 5 . Besides the commercial usage sites, there are dedicated military realms and environmental protection areas 5 that reduce the available space for OWPs even more. An intriguing research question from an overall systemic point of view is the maximization of welfare in Europe considering the optimal capacity allo- cation of OWPs and their corresponding high-voltage direct current (HVDC)1 grid layout taking into account restrictions from the coupled European electric- ity markets and the continental transmission grid. The arising optimization problem can be classified as a combined generation and transmission capacity expansion (GTCE) problem in which both the total capacity of each OWP and the capacity of the corresponding grid connection between offshore nodes amongst themselves and onshore nodes is determined. We contribute to the current discussion by presenting optimal OWP ca- pacity and grid topology configurations and discuss their impact on the pan- European electricity markets. Therefore, endogenous modeling of both OWP and transmission capacities is applied considering a high level of spatial and temporal detail using clustering algorithms for complexity reduction. The models are implemented in an expansion problem formulation within the pan- European electricity market and transmission grid model MILES 6 and ap- plied to the scenario year 2030. Special emphasis is laid on the effects of incorporating different weather years which proves to be a major influencing factor in the determination of an optimal capacity and topology configuration. In summary, the main contributions of this paper are as follows. 1The advantages of using HVDC are elaborated in Section 2. 2 1. Endogenous optimization of both the capacity of OWPs as well as the corresponding grid topology considering a high spatial and temporal level of detail. Therefore, clustering approaches in both the temporal and spatial domains are applied to keep the complexity of the optimization problem in check. 2. By applying an integrated multi-year weather approach, robust opti- mal capacity and topology configurations are obtained. The multi-year approach is compared against the commonly used single-year approach to illustrate the effects and necessity of incorporating multiple weather years. 1.1 State of the Art Literature on this research problem can be classified depending on the ap- proach and whether decision-relevant parameters are modeled as endogenous or exogenous variables. In principle, free variables such as OWP and transmis- sion capacity can be modeled endogenously as decision variables or be modeled exogenously by setting the variable to a predefined value and subsequently run a mere simulation or reduced optimization. There also exist heuristic ap- proaches in which exogenous parameter combinations are systematically tested out and the best configuration is chosen. Generally, the optimization problem gets more complex with an increasing number of free, independent parameters and the determination of the right balance between complexity and accuracy of results is a challenge in itself. Thus, in the literature different approaches have evolved ranging from full exogenous modeling i.e. full sets of predeter- mined parameters 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
__label__energy	Broad Ranges of Investment Con f_igurations for Renewable Power Systems, Robust to Cost Uncertainty and Near-Optimality Fabian Neumanna,b, , Tom Browna,b aDepartment of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, Institute of Energy Technology, Technische Universit at Berlin (TUB), Einsteinufer 25 (TA 8), 10587, Berlin, Germany bInstitute for Automation and Applied Informatics (IAI), Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Hermann-von-Helmholtz-Platz 1, 76344, Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany Abstract To achieve ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets in time, the planning of future energy systems needs to accommodate societal preferences, e.g. low levels of acceptance for transmission expansion or onshore wind turbines, and must also ac- knowledge the inherent uncertainties of technology cost projections. To date, however, many capacity expansion models lean heavily towards only minimising system cost and only studying few cost projections. Here, we address both criticisms in unison. While taking account of technology cost uncertainties, we apply methods from multi- objective optimisation to explore trade-oﬀs in a fully renewable European electricity system between increasing system cost and extremising the use of individual technolo- gies for generating, storing and transmi t_ting electricity to build robust insights about what actions are viable within given cost ranges. We identify boundary conditions that must be met for cost-eﬃciency regardless of how cost developments will unfold; for instance, that some grid reinforcement and long-term storage alongside a signif- icant amount of wind capacity appear essential. But, foremost, we reveal that near the cost-optimum a broad spectrum of regionally and technologically diverse options exists in any case, which allows policymakers to navigate around public acceptance is- sues. T_he analysis requires to manage many computationally demanding scenario runs eﬃciently, for which we leverage multi- f_idelity surrogate modelling techniques using sparse polynomial chaos expansions and low-discrepancy sampling. Corresponding author Email address: f.neumann tu-berlin.de (Fabian Neumann) Preprint November 30, 2021arXiv:2111.14443v1 physics.soc-ph 29 Nov 2021 Contents 1 Introduction 2 2 Methods 4 2.1 Least-Cost Investment Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 2.2 Near-Optimal Alternatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2.3 Model Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.4 Technology Cost Uncertainty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.5 Surrogate Modelling with Polynomial Chaos Expansion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.6 Multi f_idelity Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 2.7 Experimental Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 2.8 Model Validation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 3 Results and Discussion 16 3.1 Cost and Capacity Distribution of Least-Cost Solutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 3.2 Parameter Sweeps and Global Sensitivity Indices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 3.3 Fuzzy Near-Optimal Corridors with Increasing Cost Slack . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 3.4 Probabilistic Near-Optimal Space in Two Technology Dimensions . . . . . . . . 21 3.5 Capacity Distributions at Minimal Onshore Wind and Transmission Grid . . . . 22 3.6 Critical Appraisal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 4 Conclusion 23 References 24 1. Introduction Energy system models have become a pivotal instrument for policy-making to f_ind cost-eﬃcient system layouts that satisfy ambitious climate change mitigation targets. But even though they have proliferated in spatial, temporal, technological and sec- toral detail and scope in recent years, least-cost optimisation models can easily give a false sense of exactness 1, 2 . Frequently, they present just a single least-cost solution for a single set of cost assumptions, which not only neglects uncertainties inherent to technology cost projections which capacity expansion models are susceptible to 3 5 , but also hides a wide array of alternative solutions that are equally feasible and only marginally more expensive 6 8 . Trade-oﬀs revealed by deviating from least-cost solutions are extremely a t_tractive for policymakers, because they allow them to make decisions based on non-economic crite- ria without aﬀecting the cost-eﬀectiveness of the system. Knowing that many similarly costly but technologically diverse solutions exist, helps to accommodate political and social dimensions that are otherwise hard to quantify; for instance, rising public oppo- sition towards reinforced transmission lines and onshore wind turbines or an uneven distribution of new infrastructure 8 10 . 2 Techniques like multi-objective optimisation and modelling-to-generate-alternatives are designed to f_ind such near-optimal solutions. Among others, they have been applied to investment planning models of the European 6 , the Italian 7 , and the United States power system 11 , pathways to decarbonise the power system of the United Kingdom 12 , a single-node sector-coupling model of Germany 13 , global integrated assessment models 14 , and were combined with
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Quality versus speed in energy demand prediction for district heating systems Witold Andrzejewski1 0000 0001 9486 929X , Jędrzej Potoniec1 0000 0002 6115 6485 , Maciej Drozdowski1 0000 0001 9314 529X ?, Jerzy Stefanowski1 0000 0002 4949 8271 , Robert Wrembel1 0000 0001 6037 5718 , and Paweł Stapf2 1Poznan University of Technology, Poznań, Poland Witold.Andrzejewski, Jedrzej.Potoniec, Maciej.Drozdowski, Jerzy.Stefanowski, Robert.Wrembel cs.put.poznan.pl 2Kogeneracja Zachód S.A., Poznań, Poland p.stapf kogeneracjazachod.pl Abstract. In this paper, we consider energy demand prediction in dis- trict heating systems. Eﬀective energy demand prediction is essential in combined heat power systems when oﬀering electrical energy in compet- itive electricity markets. To address this problem, we propose two sets of algorithms: (1) a novel extension to the algorithm proposed by E. Dotza- uer and (2) an autoregressive predictor based on hour-of-week adjusted linear regression on moving averages of energy consumption. These two methods are compared against state-of-the-art artiﬁcial neural networks. Energy demand predictor algorithms have various computational costs and prediction quality. While prediction quality is a widely used measure of predictor superiority, computational costs are less frequently analyzed andtheirimpactisnotsoextensivelystudied.Whenpredictoralgorithms are constantly updated using new data, some computationally expensive forecasting methods may become inapplicable. The computational costs can be split into training and execution parts. The execution part is the cost paid when the already trained algorithm is applied to predict something. In this paper, we evaluate the above methods with respect to the quality and computational costs, both in the training and in the execution. The comparison is conducted on a real-world dataset from a district heating system in the northwest part of Poland. Keywords: time-series analysis energy demand forecasting artiﬁcial neural networks time-quality trade-oﬀ 1 Introduction District heating systems (DHS) are widely used in North-Western Europe to deliver heat and hot water to households. A DHS is often a cogeneration system or combined heat power (CHP), when heat is also used to generate electric ?Corresponding authorarXiv:2205.07863v1 cs.LG 10 May 2022 energy. The amount of electric energy that can be produced is directly related to the amount of produced heat. Moreover, it is a legal demand in Poland that district heating systems sell only electric energy cogenerated with heat, i.e., it is forbidden to produce electricity and dispose of heat. Hence, for CHP systems, prediction of heat demand is essential to submit bids for electric energy in the priciest hours in an energy market. Constructing computationally eﬃcient intelligent systems faces a number of challenges in industrial applications in which data is collected in extensive sensor networks. Often, such raw data is incomplete and of low quality. In this paper, we report on our experience from an R D project in designing algorithms for heat demand prediction for Kogeneracja Zachód3, a company running a cogen- eration system in Poland. We evaluate the algorithms w.r.t. prediction quality and computational cost, both in the training and testing phases. The trade-oﬀ between prediction error and computational cost is interesting from the research point of view. Yet, it is essential in the edge fog systems, if IoT devices (e.g. energy counters) with low computational resources were supposed to not only measure but also predict energy consumption and incrementally train models with new arriving data. This is a potential use-case for future smart grids, when IoT devices could optimize energy consumption plan of the consumer and energy supply to the grid. Two types of algorithms for predicting thermal energy usage are proposed. The ﬁrst one includes novel extensions of the algorithm originally proposed by E. Dotzauer in 6 . The second type is based on the hour-of-week adjusted linear regression on moving averages of energy consumption and is a type of autore- gressive predictor. These algorithms are compared against two state-of-the art artiﬁcial neural networks. The evaluation is conducted on real-world data which is made public for research purposes, cf. 17 . This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 outlines existing literature on predicting energy consumption. In Section 3 the goals in energy prediction of the R D project are formulated. The prediction algorithms we contribute are presented in Section 4. The test dataset is outlined in Section 5. The prediction algorithms are evaluated in Section 6. Section 7 concludes the paper. 2 Related Work The most frequently used methods on predicting energy consumption, both elec- tricalandthermal,canberoughlyclassiﬁedas:(1)regression,amongthemlinear or piecewise linear methods, (2) statistical, e.g., based on autoregressive meth- ods, (3) machine learning, e.g., neural networks, and (4) mixed ones. In 12 , 12 linear and Gaussian process regression models of energy consump- tion were developed for residential and commercial buildings. Gaussian mixtures were also applied in 14 to ﬁt two-dimensional distributions of heat demand and outdoor temperature. In 6 the heat demand was split into components depend- ing on outdoor temperature and a seasonal inhabitant behavior, cf. Section 4.1. 3https: kogeneracjazachod.pl Heat demand for two localities in Czechia were predicted using a similar method 3 .ThesocialcomponentwasrepresentedbySeasonalAutoregressiveIntegrated Moving Average (SARIMA) model. A Support Vector Machine model was build in 5 to predict a building monthly energy usage. Input parameters included monthly mean outdoor tem- perature, relative humidity, and global solar radiation. The model outputs an aggregated monthly prediction of energy usage. In 7 , 7 machine learning tech- niques predicting electrical energy consumption in residential buildings are com- pared: linear regression, Feed Forward Neural Networks (FFNN), Support Vec- tor Regression, Least Squares Support Vector Machines (LS-SVM), Hierarchical Mixture of Experts (HME), HME-FFNN, Fuzzy C-Means with FFNN. The ex- periments were run on synthetic datasets, showing that LS-SVM oﬀered a better prediction model. An FFNN with 1 hidden layer was used in 2 to predict heat demand of households. In 11 a Radial-Basis Function Neural Network (RBFNN) was used to model energy consumption in a large building. The goal was to minimize pre- diction errors in the training and validation datasets, as well as, to minimize the RBFNN size. A hybrid genetic algorithm-adaptive network-based fuzzy infer- ence system was proposed in 13 , which was a 5-layer rule-based structure. The ﬁrst 3 layers calculated the strength
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	ASSESSING WIND ENERGY S POTENTIAL FOR KENTUCKY Abbas Shah Syed Department of Electronic Engineering Mehran University of Engineering and Technology Jamshoro, 76062, Pakistan zaigham.shah faculty.muet.edu.pkAron Patrick PPL Corporation PA, 18101-1179, USA ALPatrick pplweb.com Adrian Lauf Department of computer Science and Engineering University of Louisville Louisville, KY , 40208 USA adrian.lauf louisville.eduAdel Elmaghraby Department of computer Science and Engineering University of Louisville Louisville, KY , 40208 USA adel.elmaghraby louisville.edu ABSTRACT Recently, there has been a push by countries to diversify their energy mix considering various factors. In this regard, there have been several studies conducted to assess the potential for using sources such as wind and solar to generate supplemental energy to the already present energy generation setup. In this regard, this study explores the potential of wind for the Commonwealth of Kentucky. To perform this study, wind data was sourced for eight locations across Kentucky from the publicly accessible wind speed information present at Weatherunderground for the years 2020-2021. An analysis was performed concerning the seasonal, monthly and hourly variation in the wind speed so as to identify the expected times of sufficient wind energy generation. Moreover, a comparison of the collected data was performed with data from a home-based weather station and a deployed wind turbine as well to validate the variation pattern of the publicly sourced data. Finally, in order to investigate the variation patterns of wind and solar energy sources, a comparative analysis was also performed using data from a solar power generation plant in Kentucky. It was observed that a seasonal and monthly complemetarity was observed between the wind and solar. However, when considering daily patterns, the wind was found to follow solar generation with an offset. While further research is required, this analysis indicates that it is possible to deploy wind energy power generation projects in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. The seasonal complementary behavior of wind and solar can be used along with battery storage in conjunction with natural gas to provide a diversified electricity generation portfolio. Keywords Solar Energy Wind Energy Wind Power Generation Solar and Wind Solar Wind Complementarity 1 Introduction The power requirements of countries around the world are increasing with the growth in human population. The population of the world is expected to increase to 8.5 Billion people by 2030, and will result in an increase in world energy demand by 21 as predicted by the International Energy Agency 1 . Moreover, the electricity consumption for North America is projected to increase from 4,222 TWh in 2020 to 5,687 TWh in 2050 2 . Such increases in electric power requirements have been observed in developing countries as well. Therefore, countries around the world have become interested in diversifying their energy mix to cater to growing energy needs. Taking this in to consideration, the aim of the current study are as follows. Citation :Syed A.S. et. al. Assessing wind energy s potential for Kentucky. pp. 1-10arXiv:2404.08663v1 physics.soc-ph 29 Mar 2024 Assessing wind energy s potential for Kentucky Analyze wind data and explore variation patterns to provide insight in to the suitability of wind power generation in Kentucky. Analyze the variation pattern of solar energy and compare with wind to assess complemetarity. Solar and wind generation systems for electricity can work as part of the grid or in a standalone arrangement and can be used in both rural as well as urban settings 3 . It therefore has been the focus of multiple studies around around the world 4,5,6,7,8,9,10,10,11 . These studies have ascertained the potential of wind energy in different regions of the world. Neupane et. al in 7 studied solar and wind energy potential in Nepal, Al-Ghamdi et. al 6 studied wind energy potential and data for various locations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Adem Cakmakcu and Huner 5 assessed the potential of wind power generation at a location in Turkey and 8,12 studied the variability of onshore wind in California and in Texas 9 . The authors aimed to provide an assessment of the useability of wind as an energy generation source. Understanding that there is a spectrum of needs in terms of diversifying energy generation sources, this study highlights the case of wind. We start by providing an introduction to the current state of renewable energy generation, focusing on the wind in Section 2. Section 3 presents the data collection scheme used for gathering wind data from different locations in Kentucky. An anlysis of wind speeds at the different locations is presented in Section 4. Section 5 discusses the scenario of complementary use of wind and solar energy to achieve a reliable over-the-year energy mix. Finally, the study is concluded in Section 6. 2 Energy from Wind According to the International Energy Agency, global power generation through renewables was 30.2 in 2023 13 . In the US, renewable energy generation is expected to more than double from 21 in 2021 to 44 in 2050 making it the fastest growing energy source 14 . This is not surprising given that renewable energy represents the majority of new power added to the generation capacity around the world 15 and is expected to grow by 17 in 2024 16 . The integration of renewable energy in to the North American power system can produce significant economic benefits as well. Wind energy has been touted as an important renewable energy source and is expected to be the fastest growing renewable energy source from 2020 through 2024, being the reason for two third of the growth in the renewable energy sector during this time 17 . As per data of the US Energy Information Agency (EIA) 18 , while the US is responsible for generating 21 of the worlds wind energy generation, the utilization of wind energy for power generation by Kentucky is well below other states with similar wind characteristics. The wind speed in Kentucky seems similar to most of the east coast and west coast, where as it is higher in the central region of the US. Even with this, utilization
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	arXiv:1610.07687v1 cs.SY 25 Oct 20161 Policy Design for Controlling Set-Point Temperature of ACs in Shared Spaces of Buildings Wayes Tushar , Wang Tao, Lan Lan, Yunjian Xu, Chathura Withanage, Chau Yue n, and Kristin L. Wood Abstract Air conditioning (AC) systems are responsible for the major percentage of energy consumption in buildings. Shared spac es constitute considerable ofﬁce space area, in which most ofﬁ ce employees perform their meetings and daily tasks, and the refore the ACs in these areas have signiﬁcant impact on the energy usage of the entire ofﬁce building. The cost of this energy consump tion, however, is not paid by the shared space users, and the AC s te mperature set-point is not determined based on the users preferences. This latter factor is compounded by the fact th at different people may have different choices of temperatu re set-points and sensitivities to change of temperature. Therefore, it i s a challenging task to design an ofﬁce policy to decide on a pa rticular set-point based on such a diverse preference set. As a conseq uence, users are not aware of the energy consumption in share d spaces, which may potentially increase the energy wastage a nd related cost of ofﬁce buildings. In this context, this pap er proposes an energy policy for an ofﬁce shared space by exploiting an es tablished temperature control mechanism. In particular, w e choose meeting rooms in an ofﬁce building as the test case and design a policy according to which each user of the room can give a preference on the temperature set-point and is paid for f elt discomfort if the set-point is not ﬁxed according to the g iven preference. On the other hand, users who enjoy the thermal co mfort compensate the other users of the room. Thus, the polic y enables the users to be cognizant and responsible for the pa yment on the energy consumption of the ofﬁce space they are sharing, and at the same time ensures that the users are satis ﬁed either via thermal comfort or through incentives. The po licy is also shown to be beneﬁcial for building management. Through experiment based case studies, we show the effectiveness of the proposed policy. Index Terms Policy, shared space, air-conditioning system, preferenc e, energy, experiment. I. INTRODUCTION Air-conditioning (AC) systems are one of the primary source s of energy consumption, and have a great inﬂuence on the overall energy usage in buildings. For example, it is estima ted in 1 that buildings account for 70 electricity consumption in the United States and 40 of this consumption is due to the use of ACs 2 . Such massive c onsumption of energy can potentially increase the peak demand to the grid as well as si gniﬁcantly raise the cost of electricity for the building ow ner. As a result, there has been a considerable push towards designi ng policies and control algorithms that can effectively cap ture the tradeoff between an AC s temperature set-point and thermal comfort of users, and then control the ACs in such a way that conﬁrms minimum inconvenience to the users 3 . The recent studies on policy design and control algorithms f or controlling ACs can be divided into three categories. The ﬁrst category includes policies for AC as demonstrated in 4 , 5 and 6 . In 4 , the authors present an intelligent optimis ation Corresponding author: wayes tushar sutd.edu.sg. The authors are with the Singapore University of Technology and Design (SUTD), 8 Somapah Road, Singapore 487372. (Email : wayestushar, lan lan, yunjianxu, chathura, yuenchau, kristinwood sutd.edu.sg; wang0555 e.ntu.edu.sg). 2 model for deciding policies on energy sourcing via a dynamic temperature set point. A study to identify the potential imp act of measures and policies to reduce the energy consumption of AC in European countries over a 10-year period is conducted i n 5 . Based on analysis of hourly electricity consumption da ta (smart meter data) from 30,000customer accounts in Northern California, suggestions are made in 6 to focus on ACs ener gy consumption for designing policies and programs for dema nd response. A second category of studies mainly focuses on con trol strategies to minimize the use and cost of electricity. For instance, in 7 , the authors propose an automatic thermost at control system based on the mobility prediction of users i n indoor environmentsbyusingcontextualinformation(historical patternandrouteclassiﬁcation)throughmobilephones.A c ombination of stochastic dynamic programming and rollout techniques i s developed in 8 for controlling ACs and lighting of buildi ngs in order to minimize the total daily energy cost. The authors de monstrate a novel methodology of determining the proper chi lled piping pressure set point in 9 , through which ACs used in hi gh-tech industries can reduce electricity consumption. In 10 , a mixed integer multi-scale stochastic optimization probl em is formulated, and a model predictive control based heuri stic is proposed for scheduling load of different characteristics including ACs for a home management system. Finally, a third category of studies focuses not only on cont rolling the energy consumption for reducing cost but also on user comfort 3 and fault detection of ACs 11 . For example , a statistical process control technique and a Kalman ﬁlter ing method are integrated in 11 for system level fault detecti on in AC systems. A neural network based fault detection meth od is proposed in 12 that improves the energy efﬁciency and ther mal comfort by removing various faults in the system. Two oth er robust and computationally efﬁcient algorithms for fault d etection techniques for AC are demonstrated in 13 and 14 . These algorithms are based on a non-linear state estimation techn ique and a t-statistic approach respectively. Finally, use r comfort has received paramount importance in a recent energy contro l study of AC systems. This attention is due to the fact if the user comfort is compromised signiﬁcantly as part of an energ y management system, consumers will eventually refuse
__label__energy	Green ILC Concept: Scenarios toward 2050 Carbon Neutrality in Japan and ILC Masakazu Yoshioka (Iwate University Iwate Prefectural University) Abstract This paper describes Japan s scenario for achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 and the policy that should be adopted by the ILC in Japan in line with that policy. This paper only discusses CO2 emissions during operation, not the lifecycle CO 2 emissions of the ILC. 1. Introduction: CO 2 emissions from accelerator facilities The earth is currently in a warming trend due to natural cycles (Milankovitch cycle). Although some researchers question the warming caused by anthropogenic factors, I believe that rapid changes are occurring that cannot be explained by natural cycles alone, and I also believe that the world and Japanese government policies that set a goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 are very correct. Accelerators are powered by electricity, and CO 2 is emitted during the production of electricity. In the case of the ILC, peak electricity consumption is about 130 megawatts, resulting in an annual consumption of around 700 million kWh, depending on the operating hours. In Japan, the CO 2 emissions per kWh are reported annually by the local electric power company. Electricity is produced from three energy sources: (1) fossil fuels, (2) renewable energy, and (3) nuclear power. For instance, in the region where the ILC candidate site is located (in Japan), the proportionate of renewable energy, including hydroelectric power, is 21 , while nuclear power accounts for zero, and others depend on fossil fuels. As a result, the coefficient per kWh is 480 grams (in FY2021). This value is quite large compared to Europe and the United States. When this value is multiplied by the electricity consumption by the ILC yields an annual CO 2 emission of 336 kilotons. Annually, Japan s Ministry of the Environment conducts a quantitative assessment of each municipality in Japan to ascertain their respective CO 2 emissions. According to this assessment, Ichinoseki City, where the ILC candidate site is located, has a value of 871 kilotons in 2018. Based on the CO 2 emission factor from 2021, the emissions attributed to the ILC constitute 40 of Ichinoseki s total emissions. However, it s worth noting that the CO 2 emissions per kWh of electricity are anticipated to decrease to less than 50 of the current level by the time the ILC operation. The emissions of Ichinoseki City at that time will be considerably smaller, so the discussion here is for reference only. Figure 1 was given to us by Benno List of DESY. The left side of the figure is the group of so-called developed countries, and it is noticeable that the coefficients for Japan and South Korea are high. On the other hand, Europehas a high ratio of renewable energy sources such as hydro, wind, and solar power.Additionally, France,Switzerlandand severalother countries rely on nuclear power, resulting in the coefficient for Europe being nearly half that of Japan. The situation in Europe is very different from that in Japan, which is an island nation, because the power grid in Europe is connected across national borders. Japan must create a closed scenario in one country. Fig.1 CO 2emission factor kWh for various countries regions 1 What should we do to reduce CO 2emissions? We need to do all three of the following: 1) further develop energy-saving technologies, 2) operate the ILC using as much renewable energy as possible and recover as much of the heat energy emitted from the ILC as possible, and 3) increase CO 2absorption in cooperation with the communities where the ILC will be located. This item 3) will be discussed in detail in the next section. 2. Japanese Government s Scenario for Achieving Carbon Neutrality by 2050 Accordingtoinformation provided on the Japanese government sofficial website, the 2030 target is 37 renewable energy, 21 nuclear, and the rest fossil fuels. The conversion factor is 200 grams, which is about the same as the current European level, according to the Figure 1. But if you look closely, the coefficient for 2050 is not zero, so what happened to the goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050? According to the government s website, the government will of course make efforts to reduce CO 2emissions to achieve carbon neutrality, but it is not possible to reduce CO 2emissions to zero, and the strategy is to increase CO 2absorption to offset the CO 2emissions. I findthis policy to berealistic. As shown in Figure 2, the Japanese archipelago is located at a moderate latitude, has a mountain spine, the Sea of Japan, and prevailing westerly winds, so rain and snow fall evenly over the country, and the average annual precipitation is 1,700 mm, twice the world average. Agriculture is also carried out using only natural water. Surprisingly, there are many agricultural activities in the world that depends on fossil water. Forests, if properly managed, can be a truly renewable source of energy and absorb and fix CO 2. This is called green carbon. In addition, Blue Carbon can be expected to absorb and fix CO 2 by cultivating seaweed beds in coastal areas. As an island nation, Japan ranks sixth in the world for the total length of its coastline. Here we need to know two things. One is where is carbon stored? and the other is the status of biomass that fixes carbon . There was an interesting article in the Asahi Shimbun s GLOBE dated September 21, 2022. The world s greenhouse gas emissions are 52 billion t- CO2 equivalent. On the other hand, carbon is stored in the forests (2 trillion tons) and soil (5.5 to 8.8 trillion tons), of which 3 trillion tons is in the topsoil and 3 trillion tons in the atmosphere. The oceans also store a large amount, but unfortunately the article did not provide that information. Fig. 2 Why Japan is Blessed with Renewable Biomass Here is another interesting figure from the paper The biomass distribution on Earth by Yinon M. Bar-On, Rob
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Who should I trust? A Visual Analytics Approach for Comparing Net Load Forecasting Models Kaustav Bhattacharjee , Soumya Kundu , Indrasis Chakraborty , and Aritra Dasgupta Department of Data Science , New Jersey Institute of Technology, USA. Email: kb526, aritra.dasgupta njit.edu Optimization and Control Group , Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA. Email: soumya.kundu pnnl.gov Center for Applied Scientific Computing , Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA. Email: chakraborty3 llnl.gov Abstract Net load forecasting is crucial for energy plan- ning and facilitating informed decision-making regarding trade and load distributions. However, evaluating forecasting models performance against benchmark models remains challenging, thereby impeding experts trust in the model s performance. In this context, there is a demand for technological interventions that allow scientists to compare models across various timeframes and solar penetration levels. This paper introduces a visual analytics- based application designed to compare the performance of deep- learning-based net load forecasting models with other models for probabilistic net load forecasting. This application employs carefully selected visual analytic interventions, enabling users to discern differences in model performance across different solar penetration levels, dataset resolutions, and hours of the day over multiple months. We also present observations made using our application through a case study, demonstrating the effectiveness of visualizations in aiding scientists in making informed decisions and enhancing trust in net load forecasting models. Index Terms visual analytics, AI ML, net load forecasting I. I NTRODUCTION Comparing multiple computational models for their per- formance is crucial for enhancing trust in model outcomes because it provides a basis for evaluating the reliability and consistency of each model 2 , 10 , 12 . By assessing how different models perform under various conditions and scenar- ios, stakeholders can better understand their strengths, weak- nesses, and overall effectiveness. Such comparative analysis helps to identify the most suitable model for specific tasks or applications, thereby instilling confidence in the reliability of the chosen model. This becomes more important while predicting the net load of an electric grid, which is defined as the difference between total electricity demand and generation from behind-the-meter resources like solar and distributed gen- erators, and is influenced by various factors such as weather conditions and time of day 3 , 15 . Accurate net load forecasting enables grid operators, poli- cymakers, and energy providers to make informed decisions regarding energy trade, load distribution, and resource alloca- tion. However, the rise of solar energy generation sources in residential settings has significantly impacted the performance of traditional net load forecasting models, highlighting the Parts of this work were supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office and the Office of Electricity Sensors Program, and performed jointly at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC05-76RL01830 and at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344).need for robust time-series forecasting techniques 6 . Collab- orating with scientists, we developed a deep-learning model that integrates variables such as temperature, humidity, appar- ent power, and solar irradiance to achieve strong predictive performance and resilience in the face of missing data 14 . However, the model s sensitivity to seasonal variations and noisy inputs underscores the need for further exploration with domain experts. Hence, we developed an interactive tool that empowers users to investigate the model s performance across diverse time periods and input scenarios 1 . However, while we initially recognized the importance of comparing the model s performance with traditional models, feedback from domain experts further emphasized its signif- icance in building trust in model outcomes. Visual analytics can play a pivotal role here, as evidenced by prior research demonstrating its importance in enhancing trust in machine learning models 4 . This is exemplified by the interactive tool we developed, which enabled domain experts to extract valuable insights concerning the model s sensitivity toward temperature and humidity. Moreover, recent discourse, as highlighted in 8 , emphasizes the critical role of visual analytics in fostering trust-augmented applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI ML) within the energy sector. Building upon this, we designed our application, incor- porating carefully selected visual analytic interventions. These interventions facilitate the comparison of multiple models across various parameters, including solar penetration levels, dataset resolutions, and different hours of the day, enhancing stakeholders confidence in model performance. The aim of our application is to build trust through model comparison, primarily comparing our net load forecasting model with a reference model. We enhanced our model to process inputs at varying resolutions and then devised the reference model, which generates predictions by averaging net load ground truths for the last 30 days at the same time point. Despite lacking predictive ML components, this reference model serves as a benchmark in various net load forecasting competitions, including the recent Net Load Forecasting Prize by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Technologies Office (SETO) 13 . Through the web interface of our application, we were able to uncover patterns in the performance that help improve trust in the model outcomes. In this work, we identify the visual analytic tasks that are required to compare thesearXiv:2407.21299v1 cs.HC 31 Jul 2024 models. These tasks can be extended to compare other similar net load forecasting models, enabling users to make well- informed decisions based on the outcomes of these models. While previous research has predominantly focused on de- veloping interfaces during the model development phase, tai- lored to assist model developers, our emphasis lies in the post- hoc evaluation of model performance, specifically addressing the needs of energy scientists and grid operators 9 , 11 . Other studies have explored the performance of probabilistic net load forecasting models through different visualization charts but have often lacked an integrated interactive inter- face 7 , 16 . In contrast, our interactive visual analytic tool provides carefully designed visual cues for comparing model performance across different factors like dataset resolutions and solar penetration levels, thus offering a novel approach in this domain. In this paper, we first introduce the different models used in this
__label__energy	arXiv:1909.10286v2 eess.SY 17 Jun 2020GPU-accelerated Logistics Optimisation for Biomass Produ ction with Multiple Simultaneous Harvesters Tours, Fields and Pl ants Mogens Graf Plessen Abstract Within the context of biomass production, this paper propos es a method for logistics optimisation. Starting from a head quarter multiple tours are to be executed simultaneously by groups o f harvesting units (HUs) and support units (SUs) to ﬁrst harv est biomass from multiple agricultural ﬁelds, before supplyin g the biomass to multiple biogas plants (BPs) via shuttling S Us. This problem is relevant on a larger scale in particular for contr actors. This problem is complex since there are three interc onnected optimisation levels: (i) the assignment of BPs to tours and t he ordering of BPs assigned to each tour, (ii) the assignment of ﬁelds to BPs and the ordering of ﬁelds assigned to each BP, and (iii) de termining the number of HUs and SUs assigned to each tour, whe reby diﬀerent HUs and SUs may in general have di ﬀerent working rates and loading capacities. Problem modeli ng and a solution method are discussed. For the latter, a GPU-accelerated heuristic search algorithm is proposed. For the former, an optimisati on criterion minimising both total accumulated path length and the maxim um completion time over all harvesters tours, an embedded lo cal minimisation for the assignment of SUs to tours, and demand f ulﬁlment constraints for BPs are discussed. In stochastic s imulation experiments it is found that permitting unconstrained assi gnment of any available ﬁeld that a contractor services to an y available BP, independent of their ownerships, is crucial (i) to attai n maximum path length savings, and (ii) also to best balance a nd minimise uniform completion times over all harvesters tours such tha t weather-dependent harvesting windows can be exploited op timally. Keywords: Biomass Supply Chain; Logistics Optimisation; Assignment Problem; Routing Problem; GPU-acceleration. 1. Introduction Biomass belongs to the trending class of renewable energy sources. The two main beneﬁts are (i) its versatility in gen- erating not only electricity but also heat and biofuels, and (ii) its storage capability to generate energy on-demand. The ty p- ical supply chain for agricultural biomass production invo lves planting, harvesting, road transport, storage and utilisa tion for energy exploitation. A critical characteristic is that typ ically only a very limited and weather-dependent optimal harvesti ng period is available. This demands optimised logistical ope ra- tions. The largest fraction of cost in biomass energy genera tion originates from logistics operations (Rentizelas et al. (2 009)). Optimising logistics operations typically demands to init ially formulate a system model . There exist many, each typically tailored to the speciﬁc application at hand. For the archite c- ture of a biomass supply chain simulation model and function al modeling see Pavlou et al. (2016a) and Pavlou et al. (2016b). Ebadian et al. (2011) presented a biomass logistics model fo r demand fulﬁlment and storage management. Sokhansanj et al. (2006) proposed a model to simulate the ﬂow of biomass from a ﬁeld to a bioreﬁnery involving collection, storage, a nd transport operations. Marufuzzaman Eks io glu (2017) di s- cussed a dynamic multi-modal facility location model to al- leviate the impacts of congestion on biomass supply chain performance due to seasonality of biomass. They proposed mgplessen gmail.comHQNHU(g) NSU(g) B29 5 1 2B1 6 43B3711 8 10 Fig. 1. Problem sketch with exemplary NT 2 harvesters tours (paths which start and end at the same graph vertex, the headquarter), NB 3 biogas plants (blue houses) and NF 11 ﬁelds (numbered green dots indicate centroids of ﬁelds). Paths traveled by harvesting units (HUs), empty sup port units (eSUs) and loaded support units (lSUs) are denoted by black, dashed -red and blue arrows, respectively. All mobile agents start at a central h eadquarter (HQ), whereby the total number of HUs and SUs is limited, i.e., Ntotal HUandNtotal SU. All ﬁelds (numbered for identiﬁcation) provide an expected supply of biomass, whereas all BPs have a minimum demand. Subject to constraint s the optimi- sation tasks are: (i) assignments of BPs to tours, (ii) their ordering for each assignment, (iii) assignment of ﬁelds to BPs, (iv) their ord ering for each as- signment, (v) assignment of NHU(g), g 1,..., NT, and (vi) assignment of NSU(g), g 1,..., NT. a mixed integer nonlinear program to trade-o ﬀinvestment, transportation, and congestion management decisions. A li n- ear approximation of the model was then solved using a hy- brid Benders-based rolling horizon algorithm. In previous work, Marufuzzaman Eks io glu (2016) presented a dynamic multi-modal transportation network model for the delivery of biomass to biofuel plants subject to biomass supply ﬂuctu- ations and hedging against natural disasters. Cundi ﬀet al. (1997) presented a linear programming-based biomass deliv ery model. General opportunities and challenges in biomass and biofuel supply chain modeling were summarised by Yue You (2016). A review for the design of biomass feedstock sup- ply chain models was provided by Sun et al. (2018). Other re- views are by Malladi Sowlati (2018), Atashbar et al. (2016) , Castillo-Villar (2014), Yue et al. (2014) and Gold Seuring (2011). More applications of biomass logistic operations are dis- cussed, now also focussing explicitly on problem dimension s to later contrast the contribution of this paper. In Bochtis et al. (2013) the ﬁnding of a permutation schedule for a number of geographically dispersed ﬁelds where sequential biomass h an- dling operations have to be carried out (baling, loading and transport) was formulated as a ﬂow shop problem with se- quence dependent setup times (Zandieh et al. (2006)). They considered two machinery systems, a baling system (tractor - baler) and a loading system (fork-lift and transport truck) , working in series on a total of 4 ﬁelds and starting from a central depot. A sensitivity analysis was also provided tha t demonstrated the importance of accurate and predictable pa - rameters in the optimisation problem. It was found that solu - tion quality can degrade quickly otherwise. Related
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Simulation of Variable Speed Wind Turbines based on Open-Source Solutions: application to Bachelor and Master DegreesThe International Journal of Electrical Engineering Education XX(X):1 9 The Author(s) 2021 Reprints and permission: sagepub.co.uk journalsPermissions.nav DOI: 10.1177 0020720920980974 www.sagepub.com SAGE Ana Fern andez-Guillam on1and Angel Molina-Garc ıa1 Abstract This paper describes variable speed wind turbine (Types 3 and 4, IEC 61400-27-1) simulations based on an open- source solution to be applied to Bachelor and Master Degrees. It is an attempt to improve the education quality of such sustainable energy by giving an open-source experimental environment for both undergraduate and graduate students. Indeed, among the renewable sources, wind energy is currently becoming essential in most power systems. The simulations include both one mass and two mass mechanical models, as well as pitch angle control. A general overview of the structure, control, and operation of the variable speed wind turbine is provided by these easy-to-use interactive virtual experiments. In addition, a comparison between commercial and open-source software packages is described and discussed in detail. Examples and extensive results are also included in the paper. The models are available in Scilab-Xcos ﬁle exchange for power system education and researcher communities. Keywords VSWT, Modeling, Education, FOSS Nomenclature BSc Bachelor degree DC Direct current DFIG Doubly fed induction generator ECTS European Credit Transfer System EHEA European Higher Education Area FOSS Free open-source solution FSWT Fixed speed wind turbine MSc Master degree PhD Philosophi doctor RES Renewable energy sources TSO Transmission system operator VSWT Variable speed wind turbine WT Wind turbine Introduction During the last decade, aspects such as climate change, energy dependence, fossil resource scarcity and the increas- ing costs of nuclear power, have promoted the integra- tion of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) into power sys- tems1. Among these renewable resources, wind power is the most popular alternative developed and currently integrated into the grid2. Actually, since 2001, the global cumula- tive installed wind capacity has suffered an exponential growth, see Figure 1. As a consequence, the wind energy sector is promoting new employment opportunities3. These employment opportunities include direct employment manufacturing companies, promotion, utilities, engineering and R D as well as indirect employment providing services or components for wind turbines (WTs) 4. Fig- ure 2 shows the normalised employment (jobs MW) formanufacturing, installation, and O M, including direct and indirect employments determined by Cameron and Van Der Zwaan. However, and in spite of this relevant employment opportunity, it was reported in 2017 a lack of talent in the renewable energy sector5. Consequently, it has been demanded by the sector new educational programs aiming to meet the increasing human capital requirement for RES, especially in wind power areas6. Moreover, these activities require heterogeneous educational backgrounds, involving engineering, technician, economics, marketing, management and customer services7. To overcome these deﬁciencies, some European universities have already started to imple- ment new bachelor degrees (BSc), master degrees (MSc) and philosophi doctor (PhD), as summarised in Table 1. Other universities include renewable energy subjects in industrial engineering BSc, either as core academic or optional sub- jects. Engineering students need to experiment and observe what they are taught in the theory sessions to improve their knowledge in topic10. In fact, virtual experimenting is considered an alternative solution for the practical sessions of the Wind energy subject, facing the lack of wind energy experimental laboratories mainly due to the expensive costs of such teaching equipment. Laboratory scaled-workbench solutions11and lab-scale experiments12 have been previously proposed to overcome the high 1Dept. of Automatics, Electrical Engineering and Electronic Technology, Universidad Politecnica de Cartagena, 30202 Cartagena, Spain. Corresponding author: Ana Fern andez-Guillam on Email: ana.fernandez upct.es This paper is a postprint of a paper submitted to and accepted for publication in The International Journal of Electrical Engineering Education and is subject to SAGE s Author Archiving and Re Use Guidelines.arXiv:2103.01759v1 eess.SY 27 Feb 2021 2 The International Journal of Electrical Engineering Education XX(X) 200120022003200420052006200720082009201020112012201320142015201620170100200300400500Cumulative installed wind capacity (GW) Figure 1. Global cumulative installed wind capacity in GW. Data from8 min med max0123Employment factor (jobs MW)Manufacturing - direct Manufacturing - indirect Installation - direct Installation - indirect O M - direct O M - indirect Figure 2. Direct and indirect jobs per deployment phase (in jobs MW) for wind power. Data from9 Table 1. European universities including new BSc, MSc and PhD related to energy and RES Degree Name University Country BSc Energy engineering University of Southern Denmark Denmark BSc Energy engineering Aalborg University Denmark BSc Energy engineering Universidad Carlos III de Madrid Spain BSc Energy engineering Universidad Polit ecnica de Madrid Spain BSc Energy engineering Universidad Polit ecnica de Catalu na Spain BSc Renewable energy engineering Stuttgart University Germany BSc Renewable energy engineering Berlin International College Germany BSc Renewable energy engineering Universidad Aut onoma de Barcelona Spain BSc Renewable energy engineering Universidad del Pa ıs Vasco Spain BSc Renewable thermal power engineering National Research University Russia MSc Renewable energy engineering Carl Von Ossietzky Universit at Oldenburg Germany MSc Renewable energy engineering Universidad Polit ecnica de Cartagena Spain MSc Renewable energy engineering University of Aberdeen UK MSc Renewable energy engineering Kingston University UK MSc Renewable energy engineering Heriot Watt University UK MSc Wind energy Technical University of Denmark Denmark MSc Wind energy Norwegian University of Science and Technology Norway MSc Wind energy Universidad Nacional de Educaci on a Distancia Spain PhD Renewable energy Aalborg University Denmark PhD Renewable energy Universidad Polit ecnica de Cartagena Spain PhD Renewable energy Universidad de Ja en Spain PhD Wind energy Technical University of Denmark Denmark PhD Wind energy The University of Shefﬁeld UK cost of such equipment. E-learning trends have also been considered by some authors as an alternative to lab-scale experiments. Other authors have developed a remarkable amount of modules for wind teaching purposes mostly based on commercial software packages13,14(Matlab, Multisim, LabView, DigSilent) or packages that must run within commercial solutions, such as SimPower15,16or MatDyn17. During the last decade, a continued effort to promote the use of Free Open-Source Solutions (FOSS) for engineering education has been developed under different projects, taking into account
__label__energy	1 Can models for long -term decarbonization policies guarantee security of power supply? A perspective from gas and power s ector coupling Andrea Antenuccia, Pedro Crespo del Granadob , Blazhe Gjorgieva, Giovanni Sansavinia a Reliability and Risk Engineering Laboratory, Institute of Energy Technology, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, Leonhardstrasse 21, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland b Dep. of Industrial Economics and Technology Management, NTNU, 7491, Trondheim, Norway ABSTRACT The assessment of adequacy and security of the energy system requires the detailed knowledge of physical and operational characteristics. In contrast, studies conce rning energy transitions employ stylized models that oftentimes ignore the technical properties but have a lasting influence on long - term energy policies. This paper investigates the gap between energy system planning and operational models by linking these two perspectives : (1) a long -term investment model with low spatial resolution and high level of aggregation, and (2) a spatially resolved system security model that captures the interdependences between the backbone of the electric power sector, i.e ., the electricity and the gas infrastructures. We assess EU decarbonization pathways of the electricity sector towards 2050 by integrating the investment decisions of the long -term planning model and the safety performance of the resulting system operatio ns via the security assessment model. In a large RES deployment scenario, we investigate two flexibility options: gas power plants and cross -country transmission expansion. Using the integrated model, we analyze how the adequacy and security of supply unde r extreme short - term operational conditions impact the long -term planning of the energy system and the investment decision -making. We provide country specific recommendations for UK. Results indicate weaknesses in the gas -electricity system and suggest imp rovements on capacity allocation. Keywords: Adequacy and security; Energy transition; Gas-electricity nexus ; Stochastic modelling; Long - term planning; Multi-model framework 1. Introduction Modelling and analyzing energy systems is becoming increasingly challenging due to the growing need to capture the interdependencies among various energy sectors and harmonizing different research viewpoints. The energy transition should not only encompass the analysis and propo sition of long -term objectives and decarbonization alternatives but incorporate multi -layer energy system approaches that consider: 1) substitution effects among energy carriers, 2) complementariness in different models geographical and temporal resolutio n assumptions, 3) a practical and reasonable level of technical detail and system security assessments, and 4) reciprocal effects and dependencies among energy sectors (buildings, transport, grids), and others. For example, in 1 authors highlight some modelling limitations on using long -term investment models as they lack technical details and aggregated Corresponding author s: Email: sansavig ethz.ch (G. Sansavini); pedro ntnu.no (P. Crespo del Granado) 2 geographical and temporal coverage compared to more technical models (e.g. power system approaches, see also 2 ). In this regard, research on synergies and reciprocal e ffects (linkage or combin ation ) between energy models has been referred as one of the next frontiers in energy system modelling 3 . Linking or combining model s allows to harmonize and validate assumptions, exploit model capabilities (address model s weaknesses or stress strengths), provide more robust assessments, and challenge models boundaries by addressing cross -disciplinary research questions. To this end, in this paper, we investigate energy carrier integration by combining electricity and gas models along with a long -term investment model designe d for energy transition analyses. The core objective is to use the technically detailed (country specific) electricity -gas model developed for system security assessment in order to provide feedback to the aggregated (long -term EU level) investment model. Based on this modelling framework, we analyze the adequacy and sys tem security of the electricity infrastructure under different decarbonization pathways for the EU and the impacts to individual countries. For this analysis , we assume that gas -fired power plants (GFPP) will play an important role on balancing a large -scale deployment of wind and solar generation in Europe . In this regard , security of supply will face new challenges with the increasing share of renewable energy sources (RES). Planning for the security of supply faces additional challenges when the interdependencies between the electric and gas networks are considered. The interdependencies originate from the use of the GFPP to compensate for the volatile nature of the RES, where the former is supplied by the gas network. For example, s trong interdependencies existing in electric and gas network operations noted by 5, 6 , may lead to supply shortage to customers in both systems. This was the case in the US, after a cold weather event in 2011, when gas curtailments to GFPP and poor quality of gas supply accounted for 10 of production losses, i.e. 120 MWh 7 . Furthermore, such interdependencies are expected to be more prominent, as renewables become the largest source of power supply 8, 9 . The role of inter -connector capacities and of their expansion between neighboring countries in Europe has been investigated in 10 for the ability to mitigate the variability of integrated large -scale renewables in a cost -effective manner . Recently, studies claiming the feasibility of 100 renewable power systems have been critically reviewed 11 , and, in fact, the case for feasibility is deemed inadequate for the formation of responsible policies. This has opened a stimulating debate in the do main of 100 renewable power systems about methodological and modelling choices 12 . In the face of the transitio n to a 100 RES supply scenario , GFPP are expected to balance the volatility of RES if no other supply flexible options are available (e.g., biomass or storage) 13, 14 . The interactions between gas and electric infrastructures occur via GFPP and electricity -driven compressors. These linking points couple operational dynamics that evolve on different time -scales and may increase the vulner ability of both infrastructures. The risk of disruption to the supply to customers due to interdependencies is connected to several factors, such as the characteristics and the amount of GFPP, the supply capability of the
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	Strategic Planning of Carbon-Neutral Heating Demand Coverage Under Uncertainty in a Coupled Multi-Energy Grid Marwan Mostafa, Davood Babazadeh, and Christian Becker Institute of Electrical Power and Energy Technology, Hamburg University of Technology, Hamburg, Germany marwan.mostafa tuhh.de Abstract Integrating the gas and district heating with the electrical grid in a multi-energy grid has been shown to provide flexibility and prevent bottlenecks in the operation of electrical distribution grids. This integration however assumes a top- down grid planning approach and a perfect knowledge of consumer behaviour. In reality, the consumer decides whether to adopt a heating technology based on costs and government regulation. This behavior is highly uncertain and depends on fluctuations in heating technology costs and energy prices. The uncertainty associated with consumer behavior increases the risk of investment in grid expansion. In response to this challenge, this paper proposes an approach with the consumer at the center of the planning method. Robust optimization is used to model the uncertainty in prices to reduce the risk of investment in grid expansion. The uncertainty in energy prices is modeled using interval uncertainty with a proportional deviation. This allows planners, operators and regulators to predict the adoption rate of certain heating technology in different geographical areas and prioritize the expansion of specific grids where they are required. By minimizing a cost function subject to robust constraints, the strategy ensures robustness against uncertainties in energy prices. This robust optimization approach is applied to Hamburg as a case study. The result of the optimization represents the consumer s decision. The impact of the consumer s decision on the electrical grid is analzed on different benchmark distribution grids. The study concludes that district heating expansion in high-density areas is a low-risk investment for carbon neutrality. In less dense areas, electrification supports decentralized heat pumps. Meanwhile, hydrogen gas grids are viable where electric expansion is impractical. Increased uncertainty leads to more conservative solutions. The results also show that putting the consumer instead of the planner at the center of the planning method results in more critical scenarios for grid expansion. This approach can be implemented promptly and practically by grid planners and is an important component of an integrated planning process for multi-energy grids. Index Terms Robust optimization, Integrated planning, Multi-energy grids, Uncertainty management, Sector coupling NOMENCLATURE Indices i Cell index j Heating technology index ce District heating with centralized electric heat pumps cg District heating with centralized hydrogen boilers This paper has been developed as part of Integrated Network Planning (iNeP) of the research project Northern German Living Lab ( Norddeutsches Reallabor ), which is supported by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK) under agreement no. 03EWR007O2.de Decentralized heat pumps in households dg Decentralized hydrogen boilers in households Parameters N Total number of cells H Total heating energy demand per year in kWh a P Total peak heating load power in kW L Total length of streets in m W Binary flag for existing district heating grid ClCost of grid expansion in C m or C kW CpCost of heating power generator in C kW ˆCfPredicted price of energy carrier CfUncertain price of energy carrier fMaximum deviation in price of energy carrier η Efficiency of heating power generator COP Coefficient of performance of electric heat pumps Γ Upper limit on grid expansion σ Scale factor for grid expansion Sets J Set of heating technologies, J ce, cg, de, dg U Uncertainty set of energy carrier price Variables X Binary decision variable I. I NTRODUCTION Achieving carbon neutrality in energy systems requires innovative approaches in the integrated planning of distribution grids, including electricity, gas, and district heating. A main challenge in achieving this goal is the prioritization of grid expansion in different geographical areas. Conventional plan- ning methods typically use a top-down approach in forecasting future grid needs. These conventional methods pay little atten- tion to consumer behavior and assume perfect knowledge in their adaptation of new technologies. However, the consumer s decision to adopt a new technology is motivated by financial interest or government regulation. The city of Hamburg has set the target of carbon neutrality by 2045. To meet this target, an integrated planning process was proposed in 1 . In this process, the optimal grid expansion roadmap guaranteeing the security of a carbon-neutral energy supply is to be found. The first step in this process is to forecast future heating energy demand as heating is the dominant end- use of the transported energy through the grid. The heating energy demand and load distribution are aggregated in cellsarXiv:2305.04577v3 eess.SY 27 Nov 2024 which offer a comprehensive view of energy systems, incor- porating energy demand and various socio-economic factors. This method provides detailed regional demand forecasts and structures 2 . In this study, a 1 km2grid represents these cells. It was found in 3 that the provision of heat pumps at the low-voltage level cannot be implemented without significant grid expansion. In addition to heat pumps, the integration of additional loads, notably electric vehicles, into the grid due to increased electrification in all sectors intensifies the existing challenges. It was demonstrated that a centralized solution through local or district heating can alleviate the time-critical expansion in the electrical grid. Additionally, centralized heat supply offers the opportunity to integrate short-term and seasonal storage. These, in turn, allow for a notably enhanced flexibility in grid operation, presenting a significant advantage. At the coupling elements between the heating and electrical grids, the provided flexibility can be used to support the operation of the electrical grid during periods of high utilization. The next important step is to identify potential areas for centralized heat supply and at the same time reduce the immense expansion needs of the electrical grid. This how- ever must be done considering the consumers decision and government regulation. In 2024 the government passed the new buildings energy act 4 . In this paper, four heating technologies associated with four different grid expansion options are studied and the decision to invest in regionally
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Cost and e ciency requirements for a successful electricity storage in a highly renewable European energy system Ebbe Kyhl Gøtskea;b; , Gorm Bruun Andresena;b, Marta Victoriaa;b;c Abstract Future highly renewable energy systems might require substantial storage deployment. At the current stage, the technology portfolio of dominant storage options is limited to pumped-hydro storage and Li-Ion batteries. It is uncertain which storage design will be able to compete with these options. Considering Europe as a case study, we derive the cost and e ciency requirements of a generic storage technology, which we refer to as storage-X , to be deployed in the cost-optimal system. This is performed while including existing pumped-hydro facilities and accounting for the competition from stationary Li-ion batteries, ﬂexible generation technology, and ﬂexible demand in a highly renewable sector-coupled energy system. Based on a sample space of 724 storage conﬁgurations, we show that energy capacity cost and discharge e ciency largely determine the optimal storage deployment, in agreement with previous studies. Here, we show that charge capacity cost is also important due to its impact on renewable curtailment. A signiﬁcant deployment of storage-X in a cost-optimal system requires (a) discharge e ciency of at least 95 , (b) discharge e ciency of at least 50 together with low energy capacity cost (10 kWh), or (c) discharge e ciency of at least 25 with very low energy capacity cost (2 kWh). Comparing our ﬁndings with seven emerging technologies reveals that none of them fulﬁll these requirements. Thermal Energy Storage (TES) is, however, on the verge of qualifying due to its low energy capacity cost and concurrent low charge capacity cost. Exploring the space of storage designs reveals that system cost reduction from storage-X deployment can reach 9 at its best, but this requires high round-trip e ciency (RTE 90 ) and low charge capacity cost (35 kW). aDepartment of Mechanical and Production Engineering, Aarhus University, Denmark biCLIMATE Interdisciplinary Centre for Climate Change, Aarhus University, Denmark cNovo Nordisk Foundation CO 2Research Center, Aarhus University, Denmark Lead contact and corresponding author, Email: ekg mpe.au.dk Preprint submitted to PRX Energy April 12, 2023arXiv:2208.09169v2 physics.soc-ph 11 Apr 2023 I. INTRODUCTION To comply with global climate commitments 1 and green- house gases reduction targets, a massive deployment of renew- able generators, comprised of wind turbines and solar panels, is anticipated 2 . The integration of variable renewable genera- tors is associated with some challenging aspects. The variable power output necessitates backup reserves, and increased trans- mission capacity is required to even out production over larger areas 3 . Extensive literature exists on the variability of solar and wind power generation 4 8 . Where diurnal cycles domi- nate solar generation, synoptic temporal ﬂuctuations dominate wind generation. In Europe, both show a complementary sea- sonal cycle 9, 10 ; thus, an optimal seasonal mix of wind and solar exists 11, 12 . To help relieve the aforementioned challenges, one option is to balance the ﬂuctuations of the VRE production locally in time with the implementation of electricity storage. Here, elec- tricity storage refers to the conversion from electrical energy to a storage energy carrier which is converted back to electric- ity when discharged at a later time step. Similar to the temporal variability of wind and solar, di erent time scales apply to elec- tricity storage. For grid stability, certain technologies perform frequency or voltage regulation, intradaily smoothing of diurnal variability, or balancing of synoptic or seasonal variation 13 15 . In this study, we limit ourselves to utility-scale electricity storage capable of providing balancing on a time frame longer than an hour. Based on the already deployed capacity, pumped-hydro stor- age (PHS) constitutes the majority ( 90 ) of electricity stor- age, globally 16, 17 . In Europe, PHS has a cumulative ca- pacity of 55 GW power capacity 18 and 1.3 TWh energy ca- pacity 19 . Electrochemical batteries account for only 1 of today s storage capacity worldwide 20 (in Europe, residential batteries constituted 5.4 GWh storage capacity in 2021 21 ), but contribute to a large extent to the short-range primary re- sponses to continuous and sudden voltage and frequency insta- bilities 22 . In addition, Lithium-ion (Li-ion), which currently accounts for 78 of the battery systems in operation, has shown a large potential: Over the last decade, Li-ion battery packs have shown learning rates of 20 , contributed substantially by the large growth in battery electric vehicles (BEV) 23 . In literature, power system models often use batteries to represent short-term storage and hydrogen (H 2) with electrolyz- ers and fuel cells as long-term storage 24, 25 . In a low carbon- intense energy system, electricity storage is far from the only hydrogen use case. Hydrogen infrastructure is essential for the energy demands that are di cult to electrify, e.g. industrial processes or sections of the transport sector 26, 27 . In sys- tems with the coexistence of H 2and Li-ion batteries, Victoria et al. 15 ﬁnd that signiﬁcant electricity storage capacities are less likely to emerge with CO 2emissions reductions lower than 80 relative to 1990-levels, in agreement with other studies 24, 25, 28 . Victoria et al. 15 and Brown et al. 29 show that the presence of BEV replaces the need for high volumes of stationary battery storage, and, in general, that ﬂexibility in- troduced by sector coupling further delays the moment in theCO 2emissions reduction in which large storage capacities will be needed. In addition to this, Wang et al. 30 showed that it is not certain that storage is always the cost-optimal strategy, compared to overplanting renewable capacities. This raises the question of under which circumstances electricity storage will be competitive. Prior studies have evaluated the techno-economic potential and required characteristics of electricity storage to occur in re- newable power systems 14, 31 35 . With the scope of guiding storage technology development, Sepulveda et al. 31 present the idea of a technology design space. The design space con- tains combinations of storage costs and
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	Enhanced Frequency Containment Reserve Provision from Battery Hybridized Hydropower Plants: Theory and Experimental Validation Francesco Gerini , Elena Vagnoni , Martin Seydoux , Rachid Cherkaoui and Mario Paolone Distributed Electrical System Laboratory (DESL) EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland Technology Platform for Hydraulic Machines (PTMH) EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland Abstract This paper presents a solution to address wear and tear of Run-of-River (RoR) Hydropower Plants (HPPs) providing enhanced Frequency Containment Reserve (FCR). In this respect, the study proposes the integration of a Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) with RoR HPPs controlled by a double-layer Model Predictive Control (MPC). The upper layer MPC acts as a state of energy manager for the BESS, employing a forecast of the required regulating energy for the next hour. The lower-layer MPC optimally allocates the power set-point between the turbine and the BESS. Reduced-scale experiments are performed on a one-of-a-kind testing platform to validate the proposed MPC- based control considering a comparison with different control strategies and different BESS sizes. The results demonstrate superior performance of the proposed framework, compared to simpler techniques like dead-band control or to the standalone RoR scenario, leading to improved FCR provision, reduced servomechanism stress, and extended hydropower asset lifespan. Index Terms Battery Energy Storage System, Frequency Containment Reserve, Hydropower, Model Predictive Control, Run-of-River Power Plant. I. I NTRODUCTION As widely recognized, hydropower plants are renewable energy assets that play a crucial role in providing fundamental ancillary grid services, such as Frequency Containment Re- serve (FCR), which have become increasingly important due to the decommissioning of dispatchable thermal power plants. Part of the FCR reserve is provided by Run-of-River (RoR) power plants 1 , accounting for 5.94 of the total generated electricity in the ENTSOE area in 2022 2 . The need for continuous power regulations impacts the lifetime of hydroelectric assets 3 . RoR Hydropower Plants (HPP) are often equipped with double regulated Kaplan tur- bines (i.e. machines able to control guide vanes and blades opening angles), able to guarantee high efficiency values through a wide range of water discharge and head conditions. This work is funded by the XFLEX HYDRO project. The XFLEX HYDRO project has received funding from the European Union s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 857832.In the case of Kaplan turbines, the lifetime of the servomecha- nism that controls the movement of the blades is significantly impacted by continuous regulation. Continuous movements can stress the servomechanisms, leading to increased wear and tear, potential mechanical failures, and reduced overall turbine life 4 . To address these challenges, this paper fo- cuses on the hybridization of RoR HPP with Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) to enhance FCR provision and extend hydropower asset lifetime. This approach has been gathering an increasing interest in the literature 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 . How- ever, despite this interest, many of the existing contributions primarily suggest simple control techniques based on dead- band control or fuzzy logic 7 , 5 . Others discuss HPP-BESS hybridization for other applications, such as penstock fatigue reduction in medium-head HPPs 8 . Moreover, most of the above-mentioned contributions are only simulation-based or with very limited experimental validation 6 ). For this reason, the scope of this paper is to propose and ex- perimentally validate an optimal control technique for hybrid RoR HPPs operating under a daily dispatch plan that provide FCR with a fixed droop characteristic. In particular, we present a double-layer Model Predictive Control (MPC) to drive the hybrid system. The upper layer MPC (slower and farsighted) ensures the continuous operation of the BESS, by acting as State of Energy (SOE) manager, leveraging a forecast of the regulating energy necessary to provide the FCR service in the following hour. The lower layer (faster and short-sighted) is responsible for splitting the requested power set-point between the turbine and the BESS, ensuring the feasible operation of both systems. The framework is validated for different BESS power and energy ratings to study the impact of the BESS sizing on the control problem. Furthermore, the efficacy of the proposed control strategy is examined and validated through reduced-scale experiments conducted on an innovative testing platform 9 . The evaluation covers comparison with classical control strategies and BESS sizes, with a specific emphasis on assessing the FCR provision quality and the reduction in servomechanism stress. The paper is organized as follows. Section II proposes the general formulation of the control problem. Section III 23rd Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2024Paris, France June 4 7, 2024arXiv:2309.15660v2 eess.SY 29 Sep 2023 Fig. 1. DLMPC structure, showing inputs and output of the UL (in blue) and LL (in red). presents a detailed description of the two-stage control frame- work. Section IV provides the experimental validation of the proposed framework. Finally, Section V summarizes the original contributions and main results of the article and proposes perspectives for further research activities. II. P ROBLEM STATEMENT As stated in Section I, the control addresses run-of-river HPPs operating under daily dispatch plans Pdisp, scheduled hourly, and obligated to provide FCR service with a fixed droop characteristic1σf. The dispatch plan, input to the problem, is the product of an external optimization, taking into account market prices and constraints such as the concession head limit and other variables, and not object of this study. As already stated, a BESS is integrated into the system. The primary focus of this study is to propose an optimal set- point splitting policy that effectively achieves the following objectives: i) Ensuring dispatch tracking and high-quality FCR provi- sion characterized by a rapid response time, in compli- ance with stringent FCR requirements 11 , 12 ; ii) Minimizing the number of movements and the mileage of the hydropower servomechanisms; iii) Ensuring the continuous and efficient operation of the BESS by managing its SOE within physically feasible limits; iv) Validating the feasibility of the BESS power set-point to uphold operational constraints composed by the power converter capability curve. To achieve these objectives, the study proposes the use of a Double-Layer Model Predictive
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	XXX -X-XXXX -XXXX -X XX XX.00 20XX IEEE Impulse Excitation Diagram as a tool to achieve high energy orbits Damian Gąska Faculty of Transport and Aviation Engineering Silesian University of Technology Katowice, Poland damian.gaska polsl.pl Piotr Wolszczak Faculty of Mechanical Engineering Lublin University of Technology Lublin, Poland p.wolszczak pollub.plJerzy Margielewicz Faculty o f Transport and Aviation Engineering Silesian University of Technology Katowice, Poland jerzy.margielewicz polsl.pl Sławomir Bucki Faculty of Transport and Aviation Engineering Silesian University of Technology Katowice, Poland slawomir.bucki polsl.pl Grzegorz Litak Faculty of Mechanical Engineering Lublin University of Technology Lublin, Poland g.litak pollub.pl Abstract The paper presents the application of a new impulse excitation diagram (IED) to help realize high -energy orbits in nonlinear energy harvesting systems. In the case of non-linearity, we can deal with the occurrence of coexisting solutions and the proposed diagram allows for the use of the impulse excitation method in order to change the solution. For this purpose, the author s IED diagram was presented to determine the characteristics, duration and moment of initiation of the external disturbing impulse in order to jump to an other orbit. An application example is the quasizero energy harvester and two different impulse characteristics. Keywords energy harvesting, nonlinear dynamics, vibrations, energy efficiency, high energy orbits I. INTRODUCTION The continuous development of science often leads to solutions that constitute a breakthrough in technology. One of such breakthroughs, practically at the beginning of this century, may be energy harvesting 1 . Research on t he recovery of ambient energy in the form of, for example, mechanical vibrations, is currently conducted in many research centers around the world 2,3 . This issue is extended to other sources, mainly such as: air flow (as opposed to energy obtained from wind turbines), temperature changes, 4,5 etc. This arouses increasing interest also among designers, especially in the field of application in IoT devices 6 . The goal, of course, is to eliminate the external power source, which simplifies the operation of the device, eliminates the need to replace the battery or connect the device to the network. The amounts of e nergy harvested in this way is small, but sufficient to power sensors and transmit information 7 . Devices for harvesting kinetic energy from mechanical vibrations and converting it into electrical energy with use of electrostatic 8 , electro magnetic 9,10 or piezoelectric 11,12 methods. The use of piezoelectric transducers has gained quite a lot of popularity due to high energy efficiency. The frequency of vibrations in the human environment is usually quite low and is below 200 Hz, while in the case of infrastructure elements such as bridges, it often does not exceed 5 Hz 13 . The occurring amplitudes of vibrations depend on the object and may vary in a wide range. As a result, various designs of energy harvesting systems are created, which were initially adapted to a specific object. An energy harvester using the piezoelectric phenomenon is most often made of a housing mounted on a vibrating object and a beam excited to vibrations with a piezoelectric attached to it. The deformation of the beam causes the formation of an electric charge in the electric circuit of the piezoelectric 14 . Initially, such systems were designed to be linear, focused on t he resonant frequency of the source of the excitation, but the work 15 resulted in a breakthroug h by introducing non - linearity. Since then, non -linear broadband energy harvesters have been developed, the operating spectrum of which is much wider than that of devices with linear characteristics 16 . The nonlinearities are most often introduced by a system of magnets resulting in the formation of bistable 16 energy harvesters, tristable 17 and generally multistable 18 . In addit ion, nonlinearities are introduced by usage of variable beam structures, materials, elastic and dissipative elements 19 21 . Nonlinear energy harvesters, despite their ind isputable advantages ( broadband work with various input parameters), have a characteristic feature for all nonlinear systems coexisting solutions may occur in them 22 . For the same excitation conditions, there may be many orbits , some of which will be more energy efficient and others less. Under zero initial conditions, nonlinear energy harvesters usually vibrate at the low -energy orbit, which leads to small energy harvesting efficiency 18 . Of course, the goal is for the energy harvester to work with the greatest possible energy efficiency, therefore research is being carried out on the possibility of controlling the orbit. Currently, two types of orbit change method are applicable. These are electrical and mechanical methods based on the use of a n external impact to achieve a high -energy orbit . Examples of electrical methods are voltage impulse perturbation presented in the paper 23 , and load perturbation 24 based on electromagnetic kick. For the second method, an impact -induced spring -based structure was prese nted by Zhou et al . 25 to achieve high -energy orbits to overcome local potential barriers. Some solutions are based on buckling level modification 26,27 , while at work Yan et al. a synchronized switch stiffness control technique was proposed 28 . Similar studies developing the mechanical method were carried out in the works 29,30 . The key question is how much energy will be obtained and how much will be needed for the jump between orbits because the impulse should be powered by energy harvested by the system . The paper presents the IED tool that allows to sol ve some of the problems related to achieving high energy orbits. II. APPLICATION OF IED FOR EXAMPLE ENERGY HARVESTER A. Quasi -Zero Energy Harvester To present the use of IED in practice, at the beginning we present the energy harvesting system designed by us and analyzed for some time Quasi -Zero Energy Harvester (QZEH ) 20,21 in which the potential function was mapped with the quasi -zero s tiffness characteristic . The design structure of analyzed device is shown in Fig. 1 . In comparison to other design
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Corresponding author Assessing the optimal contributions of r enewables and carbon capture and storage toward carbon neutrality by 2050 Dinh Hoa Nguyen a,b, , Andrew Chapman a, Takeshi Tsuji a a International Institute for Carbon -Neutral Energy Research (WPI -I2CNER) , b Institute of Mathematics for Industry (IMI), Kyushu University , Fukuoka 819- 0395, Japan Emails: hoa.nd i2cner.kyushu- u.ac.jp, chapman i2cner.kyushu- u.ac.jp , tsuji mine.kyushu- u.ac.jp Abstract: Building on the carbon reduction targets agreed in the Paris Agreements, many nations have renewed their efforts toward achi eving carbon neutrality by the year 2050. In line with this ambitious goal, nations are seeking to understand the appropriate combination of technologies which will enable the required reductions in such a way that they are appealing to investors. Around t he globe, solar and wind power lead in terms of renewable energy deployment, while carbon capture and storage (CCS) is scaling up toward making a significant contribution to deep carbon cuts. Using Japan as a case study nation, this research proposes a li near optimization modeling approach to identify the potential contributions of renewables and CCS toward maximizing carbon reduction and identifying their economic merits over time. Results identify that the combination of these three technologies could enable a carbon dioxide emission reduction of between 55 and 67 percent in the energy sector by 2050 depending on resilience levels and CCS deployment regimes. Further reductions are likely to emerge with increased carbon pricing over time. The findings prov ide insights for energy system design, energy policy making and investment in carbon reducing technologies which underpin significant carbon reductions, while identifying potential regional social co- benefits. Keywords: carbon neutrality, renewables, carbon capture and storage, emission trading system, optimization, socioeconomic analysis. 1. Introduction As nations around the world contend with ambitious carbon reduction goals, predominantly derived from the Paris agreements 1 , Japan, under former Prime Minister Suga, has declared that it will become carbon neutral by 2050 2 . As part of this declaration, alongside innovations such as renewable energy (RE), the management of carbon is also expected to play a role. Carbon capture and storage (CCS) represents a technology which could assist in rapidly reducing the carbon dioxide emissions, particularly those from electricity and heat, i.e., from fossil fuel power stations, r esponsible for some 610 million tons (Mt) or 52 of CO 2 emissions each year in Japan 3 . The role and timeline for commercialization of CCS is discussed in the Basic Energy Plan of Japan 4 , and the processes of capture, transportation, injection and storage in Japan are under investigation along with studies on suitable sites for storage. At the global scale, CCS has also been identified as one of the key pillars to achieve net -zero CO 2 emissions by 2050 5 . CCS, however, is one ap proach among many for carbon reduction. These include RE, nuclear power, energy efficiency and forestry, among others. For example, carbon capture and utilization (CCU) has the potential to take CO 2 from the atmosphere and convert it into useful products t hrough energy provided by renewables, potentially engendering a carbon negative outcome 6 . There is also the potential to use renewable energy as a heat source to convert biomass to create low -carbon hydrogen to offset the use of fossil fuels 7 . Recently, the cost of RE has decreased significantly 8 , identifying the potential for replacement of some fossil fuels currently used for power generation which is responsible for a significant share of carbon emissions. Therefore, research is required to determine the appropriate contribution from each carbon reducing technology or approach, according to their scale of potential contribution and economic merits. Taking into account the unique Japanese situation, where all fossil fuels are imported, the role, scale and cost of alternative approaches to energy generation and carbon management are required. Toward achieving carbon neutrality, along with a suite of technologies, a number of policy approaches exist, including feed in tariffs (FITs) , carbon taxes, renewable portfolio standards and carbon trading, to name a few. Each has its own benefits and drawbacks, and can tend to favor certain technologies, as has been the case for solar power under the FIT in Japan 9 . The ai m of this research is to uncover the optimal combination of technologies to achieve carbon neutrality at the best cost, i.e., empowering the market to choose the best technologies based on their environmental and economic merits conscious of varying energy policy approaches. Further, we seek to explore the pol icy settings, including the carbon price required to stimulate different carbon reducing technology deployments in Japan, to the target year of 2050, cognizant of recent Japanese carbon reduction ambit ions. This paper is structured as follows . Section 2 investigates previous research contributions in this area, identifying the gaps filled by this research. Section 3 details the methodology used to investigate potential future combinations of renewable energy and CCS to best contribute to Japanese energy goals. Section 4 describes the results of our linear optimization model across multiple future scenarios. Section 5 discusses the findings, including technological, environmental, and economic merits along with policy implications. Finally, Section 6 describes the conclusions, limitations and future directions of this research. 2. Background and Literature Review This study builds on a body of work which has investigated the potential for national and regional emission trading and carbon reducing technology combinations. Previous modeling efforts have considered the suite of existing and emerging technologies requir ed to meet carbon reduction goals in Japan 10 . Some of these models consider hydrogen as a key technology, while still recognizing the strong role required of CCS in achieving decarbonization 11 . In regional modeling efforts, the role of electrification, the need for energy carriers such as hydrogen and the role of CCS in decarbonizing fossil fuels and some industrial processes is also recognized 12 . Most recently, Nguyen et al., detailed an emission trading s ystem (ETS) model which incorporated
__label__energy	1 Human Reliability Analysis for Oil and Gas Operations: Analysis of Existing Methods Marilia A. Ramos University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Engin eering VI, 404 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles -CA, 90095 Marilia.ramos ucla.edu Camille Major Chevron Technology, Projects and Servic es 1400 Smith Street, Houston TX, 77002 CMajor chevron.com Nsimah Ekanem Chevron Technology, Projects and Services 1400 Smith Street, Houston TX, 77002 Nsimah.Ekanem chevron.com Cesar Malpica Chevron Technology, Projects and Services 1400 Smith Street, Houston TX, 77002 Cesar.Malpica chevron.com Ali Mosleh University of California Los Angeles (UCLA Enginnering VI, 404 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles -CA, 90095 mosleh ucla.edu Keywords: Human Error, Oil and Gas, Human Reliability Analysis PRE PRINT Published on: 2020 Spring Meeting and 1 6th Global Congress on Process Safety Houston, TX March 30 April 1, 2020 Abstr act In the petroleum industry, Quantitative Risk Analysis (QRA) has been one of the main tools for risk management. To date, QRA has mostly focused on technical barriers, despite many accidents having human failure as a primary cause or a contributing fac tor. Human Reliability Analysis (HRA) allows for the assessment of the human contribution to risk to be assessed both qualitatively and quantitatively. M ost credible and highly advanced HRA methods have largely been developed and applied in support of nucl ear power plants control room operations and in context of probabilistic risk analysis. Moreover, many of the HRA methods have issues that 2 have led to inconsistencies, insufficient traceability and reproducibility in both the qualitative and quantitative p hases. Given the need to assess human error in the context of the oil industry, it is necessary to evaluate available HRA methodologies and asses s its applicability to petroleum operations. Furthermore, it is fundamental to assess these methods against goo d practices of HRA and the requirements for advanced HRA methods. The present paper accomplishes this by analyzing seven HRA methods. The evaluation of the methods was performed in three stages. The first stage consisted of an evaluation of the degree of a daptability of the method for the Oil and Gas industry. In the second stage the methods were evaluated against desirable items in an HRA method. The higher -ranked method s were evaluated, in the third stage, against requirements for advanced HRA methods. In addition to the methods evaluation, this paper present s an overview of state-of-the-art discussions on HRA, led by the Nuclear industry community. It remark s that these discussions must be seriously considered in defining a technical roadmap to a credible HRA method for the Oil and Gas industry. 1 Introduction Petroleum installations pose safety concerns that are inherent to their characteristics after all, operations and day -to-day work happen among flammable and toxic fluids. Although the oil and gas industry has made advances to improve safety, accidents of all ranges still occur. Since 1992, when the Process Safety Management standard (PSM) was promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), no other industry sector has had as many fatal or catastrophic incidents related to the release of highly hazardous chemicals (HHC) as has been the case with the petroleum refining industry 1 . Statistics show that the majority of accidents (over 80 ) in the chemical and petrochemical industries are related to human failure 2 . The American Petroleum Institute state s that in the recent decades, the 100 largest accidents at chemical and hydrocarbon processing facilities have severely injured or killed hundreds of people, contaminated the environment, a nd caused several property damage. Moreover, human error was a significant factor in almost all these accidents. In systems where a high degree of hardware redundancy minimizes the consequences of single component failures, human errors may comprise over 90 percent of the system failure probability 3 . In the petroleum industry, Quantitative Risk Analysis (QRA) has been one of the main tools for risk management. QRAs differ on the extent to which they incorporate human and organizational factors . To date, QRA has mostly focused on technical barriers 4 6 . It is important to note that the need for analyzing human error in the process industry is recognized by the American Petroleum Institute, in the guide A Manager s Guide to Reducing Human Errors (API 770) 3 . The guide states : any serious attempt to improve process safety must address the fact that human errors in the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management of facilities are the root causes of almost all quality deficiencies, production losses, and accidents . Human Reliability Analysis (HRA) allows for identifying, modeling and quantifying human errors, their causes , and their consequences. The results of an HRA can be used for developing risk reduction measures and make risk-informed decisions. HRA has deep roots in the Nuclear industr y, and m any HRA methods that exist nowadays were developed for and or primarily applied to Nuclear Power Plants (NPPs) operations. Oil and Gas operations and NPPs have, however, remark able differences concerning operation, control room layouts, time window for accident avoidance and mitigation, training and safety culture 7 . Taylor et al. 5 provide an 3 overview of these differences. In the lack of a method specific for oil and gas operations, the industry ha s been generally applying generic HRA methods, which may not correctly represent the peculiarities of their operations . Recent initiatives aim at developing an HRA method tailored for the Oil and Gas industry , such as the Petro -HRA project 8 and Phoenix for Petroleum Refining Operations (Phoenix -PRO) 7 . Both methods consist of adaptations of existing HRA methods. Petro -HRA method modified the SPAR -H method 9 for representing oil and gas operations, with a focus on upstream operations . Phoenix -PRO modified Phoenix HRA method 10 for oil refineries and petrochemical plants operations. The features of an HRA method for the Oil and Gas industry should not stop at its suitability for representing and analyzing its operations . It is equally important that the model is robust qualitatively
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	An optimal reeling control strategy for pumping airborne wind energy systems without wind speed feedback Andrea Berra and Lorenzo Fagiano Abstract Pumping airborne wind energy (AWE) systems employ a kite to convert wind energy into electricity, through a cyclic reeling motion of the tether. The problem of computing the optimal reeling speed for the sake of maximizing the average cycle power is considered. The difﬁculty stems from two aspects: 1) the uncertain, time- (and space-) varying nature of wind speed, which can not be measured accurately, and 2) the need to consider, in the same optimization problem, the different operational phases of the power cycle. A new, model-based approach that solves this problem is proposed. In the design phase, a model of the AWE system is employed to collect data pertaining to the cycle power obtained with various reel-in reel-out speed pairs, assuming known wind speed. Then, a nonlinear map, identiﬁed from these data, is used as cost function in an optimization program that computes the best reel-in and -out speed pairs for each wind speed. Finally, the optimization results are exploited to infer the link between optimal reeling speed and tether force, which are both measured with high accuracy. Such a link is used to design a feedback controller that computes the reeling speed based on the measured tether force, in order to converge on the optimal force-speed manifold. Simulation results with a realistic model illustrate the effectiveness of the approach. I. I NTRODUCTION Airborne Wind Energy (AWE) generators are autonomous systems that employ a kite, tethered to a ground station, to extract kinetic energy from wind 9 , 16 . In pumping AWE, the kite carries out a power generation cycle composed of two phases: a traction one, where the tether is reeled-out from a ground winch at low speed and under high force, and a retraction one, where the tether is reeled-in at higher speed and under much lower force. The reeling motion is managed by the ground station, with a feedback controller acting on the electric machine coupled with the winch. At the same time, a ﬂight controller is in charge of carrying out suitable trajectories in the two phases, as well as in transitions between them. The ﬂight trajectories differ signiﬁcantly among the operational phases, since fast crosswind motion is required during traction, while a non-crosswind motion is more effective during retraction. The cycle power is the average power generated in a single pumping cycle, while traction power andretraction power refer to the average values obtained during each of the two corresponding phases. To obtain the highest conversion efﬁciency, cycle power shall be maximized during operation (subject to constraints such as maximum tether force and tether speed limits), however this is not trivial to obtain. The ﬁrst reason is that the optimal reeling speed depends on the ﬂight path of the kite, and in particular on the wind speed encountered by the latter, which is generally time- and space-varying and is not accurately measured. Thus, wind speed can not be used as feedback variable by the reeling controller: strategies that compute the optimal pumping cycle (see e.g. 13 , 10 ) assuming known wind speed can not be directly translated into a practical feedback controller. To overcome this problem, reeling control techniques with different feedback variables have been proposed, and some have been tested experimentally, see e.g. 8 , 21 , 20 ).In general, these approaches exploit a model of the system to devise a link among measurable quantities (e.g., tether force, tether speed, or kite airspeed) during optimal operation with known wind speed, which can be easily assessed analytically or in simulation. Such a link is then used to devise rather simple controllers that make the system operate on the found optimal manifold. In 8 , the reel-out speed is computed as a function of the measured airspeed in order to achieve maximum traction power, while the reel-in speed is computed as a function of the angle between the tether and an inertial reference axis. In 21 , the generator torque during reel-out is computed as a function of the reel-out speed to maximize traction power. Albeit very effective, these solutions are suboptimal with respect to cycle power maximization: this is due to the presence of the retraction phase, which is dealt with separately. Indeed, the need to consider the different operational phases altogether is the second main reason that contributes to the problem difﬁculty. In this paper, we propose a new, systematic approach to design feedback reeling controllers for both phases, that starts from the same general idea as 8 , 21 but overcomes the mentioned problems. We employ a model of the system to estimate the response surface of power cycle as a function of reel-in and -out speeds, for different wind speed values. Then, using such a response surface we compute the manifold of optimal reeling speeds and corresponding optimal traction force values as parametrized by the wind speed. Finally, we derive a feedback law where the reference reeling speed is computed based on the measured tether force, such that these two variables converge to the found manifold. Therefore, the resulting control strategy employs tether force and speed as feedback variables, which are readily available. Without loss of generality, we consider a soft kite system with a single tether, such as those of 4 , 8 , but the general methodology can be used also for systems with ﬂexible wings and more tethers, such as 6 , 1 , 21 . Simulation tests with a widely used AWE model show that the proposed approach achieves optimal performance, i.e. the same that would be obtained with an optimal reeling speed allocation assuming exact knowledge of the wind speed. The authors are with the Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, Milano, Italy. E-mail addresses: lorenzo.fagiano polimi.it, andrea.berra mail.polimi.itarXiv:2109.15032v1 eess.SY 30 Sep 2021 II. S YSTEM MODEL ,PUMPING CYCLE CONTROL ,AND PROBLEM FORMULATION We consider an AWE system with a ﬂexible
__label__energy	A Comparative Analysis of Electricity Consumption Flexibility in Different Industrial Plant Configurations Sebasti an Rojas-Innocentia, Enrique Baeyensb, Alejandro Mart ın-Crespoc, Sergio Saludes-Rodilcand Fernando Frechosod aFortia Energ ıa, Gregorio Ben ıtez 3 B, Planta 1, 28043 Madrid, Spain;bInstituto de las Tecnolog ıas Avanzadas de la Producci on, Universidad de Valladolid, Paseo Prado de la Magdalena 3 5, 47011 Valladolid, Spain;cCARTIF, Parque Tecnol ogico de Boecillo, Parcela 205, 47151 Boecillo, Spain;dDepartamento de Ingenier ıa El ectrica, Universidad de Valladolid, Paseo Prado de la Magdalena 3 5, 47011 Valladolid, Spain ABSTRACT The flexibility of industrial power consumption plays a key role in the transition to renewable energy systems, contributing to grid stability, cost reduction and de- carbonization efforts. This paper presents a novel methodology to quantify and optimize the flexibility of electricity consumption in manufacturing plants. The pro- posed model is applied to actual cement and steel plant configurations. Comparative simulations performed with the model reveal significant differences in flexibility and cost-effectiveness, driven by factors such as production capacity, downstream pro- cess demand, storage capacity, and operational constraints. A comprehensive sen- sitivity analysis further clarifies the impact of various parameters on production optimization and flexibility savings. Specifically, as demand approaches production levels, flexibility decreases. Although increasing storage capacity typically reduces production costs, the benefits diminish above a certain threshold. The results pro- vide valuable information for industrial operators wishing to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs and increase the flexibility of their operations. KEYWORDS Cement industry, Steel industry, Electricity market, Energy, Flexibility, Mixed integer linear programming, Demand response. 1. Introduction The increasing integration of renewable energy sources into the power grid requires greater flexibility in electricity consumption across various industries (Pierri et al., 2020). Demand response (DR) programs have emerged as a key strategy to balance supply and demand, particularly in energy-intensive sectors (Rollert, 2022). The ce- ment and steel industries, characterized by substantial and variable energy consump- tion, offer significant opportunities for implementing DR strategies to optimize energy use and reduce costs (Zhao et al., 2014; Boldrini et al., 2023). In the cement industry, the potential for flexible electricity consumption is substan- tial due to the sector s reliance on electric machinery and processes. Recent studies have demonstrated that cement plants can adjust their electricity usage in response to price signals, thereby participating in DR programs and contributing to grid sta- bility (Ye et al., 2023; Lee et al., 2020). Similarly, the steel industry, with its high CONTACT Sebasti an Rojas-Innocenti. Email: sebastian.rojas fortiaenergia.esarXiv:2411.09279v1 eess.SY 14 Nov 2024 energy demands and batch processing nature, offers considerable scope for DR im- plementation. The adoption of electric arc furnaces (EAF) and other energy-efficient technologies further enhances the industry s ability to modulate electricity consump- tion in response to grid needs (Birley, 2021). The integration of DR in these industries not only supports grid reliability but also aligns with broader sustainability goals. By leveraging flexible electric consumption, both the cement and steel sectors can achieve significant energy cost savings and reduce their carbon footprint (Baroyan et al., 2023; Adiguzel, 2024). Several studies have been carried out to evaluate the potential of DR in the cement industry (Olsen, 2011; Lee et al., 2020; Rombouts, 2021; Zhao et al., 2014). Likewise, the potential of DR in the steel industry has also been explored (Boldrini et al., 2023; Marchiori et al., 2017; Zhang et al., 2015; Paulus and Borggrefe, 2011). Furthermore, a substantial body of research has been conducted with the objective of reducing electricity costs in a variety of energy-intensive industries. This has involved the optimization of task scheduling and the development of mathematical models that take into account fluctuations in electricity prices and production targets (R oben et al., 2022; Paz Ochoa et al., 2018; Bas an et al., 2018, 2020; Kelley et al., 2018; Han et al., 2017). Moreover, in the cement industry (Parejo Guzm an et al., 2022; Swanepoel et al., 2014; Zhang et al., 2018; Stueber et al., 2019) and in the steel industry (Ave et al., 2019; Castro et al., 2020, 2013; Fraizzoli et al., 2020; Shyamal and Swartz, 2019; Zhang et al., 2017; Hadera et al., 2015, 2016; Tan et al., 2017; Ilmer et al., 2019), several models and different approaches have been developed to optimize production schedules in order to minimize electricity costs under volatile electricity prices. However, few studies have taken the approach of deliberately perturbing the optimal production schedule to find economically beneficial transactions in other electricity markets. An example of this approach is reported in (Rojas-Innocenti et al., 2024), where a baseline production schedule is obtained using the electricity price in the day- ahead market, and this optimal schedule is perturbed to find positive transactions in the balancing market. This study has several limitations, as it does not determine the exact optimal amount of energy to sell or buy and only evaluates one transaction per iteration. This paper refines this methodology and proposes important improvements to the model. The structure of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 outlines the specific model features targeted for enhancement, provides an overview of the operational dy- namics of the analyzed electricity markets, and details the essential constraints and cost functions necessary for establishing the baseline schedule. Section 3 introduces the updated flexibility schedule, incorporating recent advancements. Section 4 demon- strates the application of the proposed methodology in a case study involving two real-world plant configurations from distinct industrial sectors: cement and steel. Re- sults are normalized for accurate comparison, followed by a sensitivity analysis in which model parameters are varied to evaluate their impact on cost and flexibility. Section 5 presents an analysis and discussion of the findings, and Section 6 summarizes the study s main outcomes and conclusions. 2. Problem Statement The goal of this paper is to develop a new procedure that enhances the methodology previously introduced in our work (Rojas-Innocenti et al., 2024) to identify and quan- 2 tify the flexibility of energy consumption in manufacturing plants. We propose several key improvements to refine the model: The
__label__energy	Forecasting Energy Needs with Logistics Theodore Modis Theodore Modis is the founder of Growth Dynamics, an organization specializing in strategic forecasting and management consulting: http: www.growth -dynamics.com Address reprint requests to: Theodore Modis, Via Selva 8, 6900 Massagno, Lugano, Switzerland . Tel. 41 -91-9212054, E -mail: tmodis yahoo.com 2 Highlights By mid -21st century coal, oil, and natural gas will be the major energies comparable in size; hydroelectric will double. By mid -21st century renewables will have practically replaced nuclear energy but still at ¼ the size of the other energies. US oil production has followed a logistic trajectory extremely closely for 100 years. US oil production by fracking is 30 completed through its logistic trajectory. US oil production will represent less than 1 of the oil consumed worldwide by mid-21st century. Abstract The logistic function is used to forecast energy consumed worldwide and oil production in the U.S. The logistic substitution model is used to describe the energy mix since 1965 presenting a pict ure significantly different from the one covering the previous 100 years. In the new picture coal gently gains on oil and hydroelectric gains on natural gas even if it is three times smaller. Finally, ren ewables wind, geothermal, solar, biomass, and waste grow exclusively on the expen se of nuclear, and are poised to ove rtake it by the late 2030s . By mid -21st century, coal, oil, and natural gas still remain the main players of comparable size. Hydroelectric has almost doubled in size. The only significant substitution is that of renewables having replaced nuclear albeit remainin g at less than a ¼ the size of the other three energy sources. U.S. oil produced by fracking is forecasted to cease by mid -21st century, while oil produced by traditional methods should continue on its slowly declining trend. US oil production is likely to represent less than 1 of the oil consumed worldwide by mid -21st century. Keywords: Energy consumption, energy forecasts, logistic function, logistic substitution model, oil production, hydraulic fracturing. 3 1. Introduction The logistic function is generally suitable to describe natural -growth processes. Originally designed for speci es populations it is dott ed with predictive power as demonstrated by the fact that no ecological niche has ever remained incomplete under natural conditions. In nature , deviations from logistic trajectories occur whenever there are mutations, natural disasters, or other un natural events. In society, deviations from logistic trajectories may result from inappropriate government decisions, wars, or major technological breakthroughs. Deviations meet with resistance and those resulting from ill -conceived decrees are gen erally short -lived permitting the logistic trajectory to continue its course toward completion. This work attempts to make reliable long -term forecasts for energy needs. The logistic function is used because it describes a natural law and therefore i s dotted with a capability to ma ke more accurate longer -term forecast s than simple curve -fitting techniques. The study concentrates on physical variables and shuns economic indicators. The latter, just like price s, are a rather frivolous means of assigning lasting value and will not follow a natural -growth process. Inflation and currency fluctuations due to speculation or politico -economic circumstances can have a large unpredictable effect on monetary indicators. Extreme swings have been observed. For example, Van Gogh died poor, although each of his paintings is wort h a fortune today. The art he produced has not changed since his death; counted in dollars, however, it has increased tremendously. Therefore our analysis using logistics will not consider arguments intrinsically connected to prices such as energy return on investmen t (EROI). Fisher a nd Pry have demonstrated that the logistic function is also s uitable to describe competitive substitutions. 1 It was in 1977 that Marchetti first used logistic substitution models to study the primary energ y mix worldwide . 2 Software developed by Nakicenovic in IIASA implemented a generalized logistic -substitution process and permitt ed long-range forec asts for the world energy, which yielded an elegant picture that becam e classic . 3 The implication was that a few parameters that described well the trajectories of the entry and exit of primary energies on the world stage for more than one hundred years would continue doing so in the long -term future. Since that time t here ha ve been many publications and updates of this picture. 4 5 6 7 8 As time went by persisting deviations from the model began making their appearance. T hey were generally dismissed as to be soon reabsorbed by proponents of logistics. Work coming out from IIASA maintained an unc hanged model as late as 2002. 9 10 However, Fisher and Pry had warned us of substitutions that may not proceed to completion due to locked market segments. Devezas et al. formally addressed the important deviations from Marchetti s original energy -substitution picture. They wrote, an astonishing deviati on can be observed the pattern was broken and replaced by relative flatness from the mid - 1980s . 11 In fact, upon more careful observation one can detect the beginning of such deviations as early as the mid -1960s. Devezas gives credit to Smil for first pointing out a significant deviation in the energy -substitu tion picture . In 2000 Smil proposed that Marchetti was wrong in concluding that the system s dynamics cannot be influenced, and stated that : After 1973, many forces began reshaping the system on a massive 4 scale 12 But it was Stewart who had pointed ou t a flattening of the energy trajectories more than ten years earlier. 13 Arguments have been made for energy substitutions correlating with Kondratieff waves . 14 15 But there is evidence that these waves may now be deviating from their regular pattern s. 16 Russian economist s raise the possibility of even the end of this cyclical phenomenon altogether . 17 Could such evolutions have contributed to the energy deviations mentioned above ? Today it has become compelling to revisit thos e
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	arXiv:1710.05957v1 physics.soc-ph 16 Oct 2017The overestimated potential of solar energy to mitigate cli mate change Marcos Paulo Belan con Programa de P os-gradua c ao em Processos Qu ımicos e Bioq u ımicos Universidade Tecnol ogica Federal do Paran a CEP 85503-390, Pato Branco, Paran a, Brasil (Dated: 5 de Novembro de 2018) Many aspects of solar energy and policies to tackle the energ y transition have been neglected. Even though the earth is plenty of sun energy, our planet is no t plenty of resources to transform that energy into electricity. This is a case between many oth ers where an strongly optimistic bias is shadowing the white elephant in the room. In the defense of Photovoltaics (PV) Creutzig et al published their view on The underestimated po- tential of solar energy to mitigate climate change 1 . They wrote, for example: Direct solar energy has a technical potential of 1,500 50,000 EJ per year, exce- eding the projected global primary energy demand of about 1,000 EJ per year in 2050 . We should pay attention to what exactlly means technical in such sentence. If technically available means achievable with today s technology, the state- ment is false. On the other hand, if it is interpreted with the belief that science will ﬁgure out a solution the statement may be true. In a previous work 2 we have presented a point of view where this optimism is a threat, which may be delaying the real discussion that we should made. The sun provides virtually limitless energy , and the most eﬃcient devices we have to use this energy are solar water heaters; those devices may reach eﬃ- ciencies as high as 70 at full sun. Thermal energy, however, is a low quality energy that can not be used to cover all of our needs. By this way, we aim to convert more sunlight into electricity. The PV market is by far dominated by Silicon, a technology discovered half a century ago. It is true that SiliconPVisquite cheaptoday, however symbo- lic human prices measured in dollars may not reﬂect the real natural prices . We are consuming 25 kg of Silver per MWp of Silicon PV built 3 . This means that with the today s production rate running around 100GWpwe are consuming 2500 metric tons of Silver per year; that is 10 of global extraction of Silver. This PV production can guarantee only 2500 GWp of PV installed, because in 25 years from now we will be replacing the PV s that are new today. If we con- sider a capacity factor of about 20 , something like 500GW, or about 5 of mankind s primary energy is all the solar electricity we are going to have in 2040 if we do not expand the production. Even though many optimists will say that this is exactly what is going to happen, one may point that it is not so clear that the industry will reduceevenmorethe Silvercon- sumption; the learning curve of Silicon PV industry is already mature, and there is not much space for im- prove production eﬃciencies and reduce prices. Other technologies such as thin ﬁlm PV s rely on Cadmium, Tellurium, Indium andSelenium, allofthosewill limit marcosbelancon utfpr.edu.brthe production rate of thin ﬁlms far below the Silicon PV s level. One may see in the news that many companies in Japan, EuropeandNorth Americaaredeclaringinsol- vency and or loosing stock value due cheaper China PV s. There areevensome doubt about ifthe Chinese companies are really making money; the hyphothesis that the demand is lower than the supply of PV s can be perfectly sustained for now. I do like solar energy, but we don t have scientiﬁcal evidence to sustain that our civilization lifestyle will be saved by Photovoltaics. Many areconcerned about eﬃciencies ofsolarcells, but we do not havea problem withthat. Anaveragebrazilianhousemayproduceits own electricity with about 15 m2ofcommercialSilicon PV; on the other hand, if we want the same amount of energy from biomass, for example, a hundred times more area should be necessary. Our technologies are already far more eﬃcient than photosynthesis. One may ask, then, why Brazil has so much bio- mass and little PV s? The Brazilian geography makes possible that huge areas of land can be used for Sugar Cane production; Brazil s land used to produce su- gar cane reached 90.000 km2this year, which is about the size of Portugal. Brazil s primary energy is 41 renewable 4 , and it is oftenly interpreted that Brazil achieve this because of its great hydroeletric power. However, Sugar Cane produces 16.7 of the primary energy while hydro produces 11 . All biomass com- bined produces twice more energy than hydro, and with Sugar Cane an eﬃcient liquid fuel is obtained. Ethanol and electricity from Sugar Cane in Brazil ac- counts for 580 TWh 4 of primary energy; electricity from PVs in Germany in 2016 accounted for only 38 TWh 5 . The secrets of Brazil energy mix are 1) lo- cation, not far from equator, 2) half of the world po- pulation density, 3) almost no coal resources available and 4) consumption per capita equals to the world average. Many will also point out that governments should tax fossil fuels, meanwhilethe United States havecho- osen the opposite direction during the Obama admi- nistration. They reduced the direct emission of Green House Gases (GHG) by replacing Coal by Shale Gas to generate electricity 6 . Shale oil and Canadian oil sands provided a way to avoid middle east fossil fu- els; by this way an energy war between OPEC and North America pushed oil prices down. Those policies havemadegaselectricitysocheapinUS thatsomenu- clearplantswereshutdownthis year, whatin turn will reduce the eﬀectiveness of Shale gas in reduce GHG 2 emissions further. And Shale has already give signals that if we stop drilling new wells the output may go down pretty fast 7 . The optimism bias of those stan- ding for PV s are analogous to that of Obama s view. Both are
__label__energy	1 Floating photovoltaic systems: photovoltaic cable submersion and impacts analysis Ricardo Rebeloa,1, Luís Fialhoa,b,2, Maria Helena Novaisa,b,3 aRenewable Energies Chair, University of Évora, 7000 -651 Évora, Portugal bInstitute of Earth Sciences, University of Évora, Rua Romão Ramalho, 7000 -671, Évora, Portugal 1 ricardoar sapo.pt 2lafialho uevora.pt 3 hnovais uevora.pt Abstract Floating photovoltaics (FPV) is an emerging technology that is gaining attention worldwide. However, little information is still available on its possible impacts in the aqua tic ecosystems, as well as on the durability of its components. Therefore, this work intends to provide a contribution to this field, analysing possible obstacles that can compromise the performance of this technology, adding to an increase of its reliabil ity and assessing possible impacts. The problem under study is related to the potential submersion of photovoltaic cables, that can lead to a degradation of its electrical insulation capabilities and, consequently, higher energy production losses and water contamination. In the present study, the submersion of photovoltaic cables (with two different insulation materials) in freshwater and artificial seawater was tested, in order to replicate real life conditions, when FPV systems are located in reservoirs o r in the marine environment. Electrical insulation tests were carried out weekly to assess possible cable degradation, the physical -chemical characteristics of the water were also periodically monitored , complemented by analysis to detect traces of copper and microplastics in the water . The results showed that the submersion of photovoltaic cables with rubber sheath in saltwater can lead to a cable accelerated degradation , with reduction of its electrical insulation and, consequently, copper release into th e aquatic environment. Keywords Electrical Insulation, Floating PV, Solar Energy, Water Quality 2 List of Abbreviations, Acronyms, Initials and Symbols CE-Electric conductivity ( µS cm ) FPV- Floating photovoltaic MΩ- Megaohm (M Ω) DO-Dissolved oxygen ( or mg L) ORP - Oxidation Reduction Potential (mV) SAL -Salinity (mg L) TDS -Total dissolved solids (ppm) T- Temperature ( ºC) PE- Polyethylene PP- Polypropylene P- Polystyrene PMMA - Polymethyl methacrylate, plexiglass PUR - Polyurethane PET- Polyethylene terephtha late PVC - Polyvinylchloride, vinyl plastics PTFE - Polytetrafluorethylene, Teflon 3 1. Introduction The world population is growing, causing an increase in the use of resources needed to maintain the living standard of the modern societies. The electricity consumption is increasing due to the electrification of various sectors, e.g. electric vehicles. Ne arly 95 of the electricity by 2050 would need to be low -carbon, a deep transformation to achieve the global temperature change below 2 C 1 . The answer to this challenge is the use of renewable energies for the production of electricity, minimizing its e cological footprint and enabling the decarbonization of the electric system. Solar energy can provide an important share of clean electricity, either through decentralized energy production, generating energy closer to the consumption points, or with centr alized power production. The floating photovoltaic (FPV) systems allow the usage of a potentially unoccupied surface, not competing with other applications such as agriculture or urban development, particularly important factors in countries with high popu lation density. FPV systems can also benefit from coexistence with other renewable energy sources (e.g., hydropower), taking advantage of existing infrastructures, such as electric power transmission lines, electric substations or energy storage systems (p umped -storage hydroelectricity, batteries, etc.). In the current market there are different types of floating photovoltaic platforms from different suppliers, but in general the electrical components (modules, cables, inverters, electrical protection devic es, etc.) are the same as those used in conventional PV applications on land. In general, the photovoltaic modules are installed on a plastic floating platform which makes the system buoyant. These floating systems are installed with some degrees of freedo m, in order to accommodate variations in the water level and wave motion, with stability given to the platforms with a mooring and anchoring setup. The literature about potential environmental impacts of these systems is reduced, however, some of the poten tial impacts on aquatic ecosystems that could arise include 2 : 1) Reduced sunlight on the reservoir Increased heat generated can induce changes on the water column characteristics and or the mixing patterns of the reservoir, uneven surface heating, g enerate potential heat plume, reduce littoral plant algae growth, the biota in the limnetic zones and the primary production, increase algae decomposition rate and the oxygen demand at the bottom of the reservoir and the shading of habitats and species; 2 ) Reduced wind and water flow can increase stratification and limit water mixing, reduce Dissolved Oxygen (DO) levels, depending on the reservoir covered area total area ratio; 3) Reduced flow in the areas surrounding the arrays can increase the sedim entation; 4) Leaching of chemicals from the materials Use or accidental release of oil, lubricants from boats and detergents used to clean panels can impact the water quality and aquatic biota, and accumulate in the sediments; 5) FPV components and anc horing in 4 the littoral and benthic zones (mooring systems, electric cables) can destroy benthic habitats, cause direct mortality and increase the turbidity; 6) Exposure to electromagnetic fields from electric cables on the bottom and littoral zones may have direct effects on macroinvertebrates and fish. Therefore, it is necessary to deepen FPV systems testing and study, in order to enhance the understanding of their operation effects and optimize their use through good practices. Furthermore, d espite sh owing resilience to extreme phenomena of nature, some news has been published about catastrophic failures of these systems 3 , 4 , and FPV systems are still perceived as relatively high risk. The first application of a floating photovoltaic system was in 2007, in Aichi, Japan, with an installed power of 20 kWp 5 . In 2008, the first commercial floating photovoltaic platform was built in a water reservoir in California, with 175 kW p 5 . After 2008, new FPV plants were installed in countries like Japan, Korea, and the United States of Ame rica. Recently, China entered this market and currently dominates
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	The Near-Optimal Feasible Space of a Renewable Power System Model Fabian Neumann Tom Brown Institute for Automation and Applied Informatics Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) Karlsruhe, Germany ffabian.neumann, tom.brown g kit.edu Abstract Models for long-term investment planning of the power system typically return a single optimal solution per set of cost assumptions. However, typically there are many near-optimal alternatives that stand out due to other attractive properties like social acceptance. Understanding features that persist across many cost-efﬁcient alternatives enhances policy advice and acknowledges structural model uncertainties. We apply the modeling-to-generate-alternatives (MGA) methodol- ogy to systematically explore the near-optimal feasible space of a completely renewable European electricity system model. While accounting for complex spatio-temporal patterns, we allow simultaneous capacity expansion of generation, storage and transmission infrastructure subject to linearized multi-period optimal power ﬂow. Many similarly costly, but technologically diverse solutions exist. Already a cost deviation of 0.5 offers a large range of possible investments. However, either offshore or onshore wind energy along with some hydrogen storage and transmission network reinforcement appear essential to keep costs within 10 of the optimum. Index Terms power system modeling, power system eco- nomics, optimization, sensitivity analysis, modeling to generate alternatives I. I NTRODUCTION As governments across the world are planning to increase the share of renewables, energy system modeling has become a pivotal instrument for ﬁnding cost-efﬁcient future energy system layouts. Energy system models formulate a cost mini- mization problem and typically return a single optimal solution per set of input parameters (e.g. cost assumptions). However, feasible but sub-optimal solutions may be prefer- able for reasons that are not captured by model formulations because they are difﬁcult to quantify 1 . Public acceptance of large infrastructure projects, such as many onshore wind turbines or transmission network expansion, ease of imple- mentation, land-use conﬂicts, and regional inequality in terms of power supply are prime examples of considerations which are exogenous to most energy system models. Bypassing such issues to enable a swift decarbonization of the energy system may justify a limited cost increase. F.N. and T.B. gratefully acknowledge funding from the Helmholtz Association under grant no. VH-NG-1352. The responsibility for the contents lies with the authors.Thus, providing just a singular optimal solution per scenario underplays the degree of freedom in designing cost-efﬁcient future energy systems. Instead, presenting multiple alternative solutions and pointing out features that persist across many near-optimal solutions can remedy the lack of certainty in energy system models 2 , 3 . Communicating model results as a set of alternatives helps to identify must-haves (investment decisions common to all near-optimal solutions) and must- avoids (investment decisions not part of any near-optimal solution) 4 . The resulting boundary conditions can then inform political debate and support consensus building. A common technique for determining multiple near-optimal solutions is called Modeling to Generate Alternatives (MGA) which uses the optimal solution as an anchor point to explore the surrounding decision space for maximally different solu- tions 1 . Other methods, such as scenario analysis, global sensitivity analysis, Monte Carlo analysis and stochastic pro- graming, that likewise address uncertainty in energy system modeling, concern parametric uncertainty, i.e. how investment choices change as cost assumptions are varied 3 , 5 , 6 , 7 . Conversely, MGA explores investment ﬂexibility for a single set of input parameters, by which it accounts for structural uncertainty and simpliﬁcations of model equations. In consequence, MGA is a complement rather than a substitute for methods sweeping across the parameter space. Evidence from previous work suggests many technologi- cally diverse solutions exist that result in similar total system costs for a sustainable European power system 15 , 16 . These two studies research the sensitivity of cost input pa- rameters or the relevance of transmission network expansion for low-cost power system layouts considering 30 regions. Previous studies that applied MGA to long-term energy sys- tem planning problems or retrospective analyses are reviewed in Table I. This work is the ﬁrst to apply MGA to a European pan-continental electricity system model which includes an adequate number of regions and operating conditions to reﬂect the complex spatio-temporal patterns shaping cost-efﬁcient investment strategies in a fully renewable system. Furthermore, the co-optimization of generation, storage and transmission infrastructure subject to linear optimal power ﬂow (LOPF) constraints is unique for MGA applications. The goal of this work is to systematically explore the wide Accepted at 21st Power Systems Computation Conference Porto, Portugal June 29 July 3, 2020arXiv:1910.01891v2 physics.soc-ph 17 Apr 2020 TABLE I LITERATURE REVIEW : STUDIES APPLYING MGA TOENERGY SYSTEM MODELS Main Max. GHG MGA Cost Near-optimal Source Sector Region Nodes Snapshots Pathway Reduction Objective Deviation Solutions LOPF Price et al. 8 coupled (IAM) global 16 1 yes 50 energy 10 30 no DeCarolis et al. 9 electricity US 1 1 no 85 capacity 25 9 no DeCarolis et al. 1 electricity US 1 1 yes 80 energy 10 28 no Li et al. 10 electricity UK 1 1 yes 80 any 15 800 no Sasse et al. 11 electricity CH 2,258 1 no none energy 20 2,000 no Trutnevyte et al. 12 electricity UK 1 3 no none any 23 250,500 no Berntsen et al. 13 electricity CH 1 386 no none any N A 520 no Nacken et al. 14 coupled DE 1 8,760 no 95 capacity 10 1,025 no Hennen et al. 4 urban energy generic 1 1 no none capacity 10 384 no This study electricity Europe 100 4,380 no 100 capacity 10 1,968 yes IAM Integrated Assessment Model, GHG greenhouse-gas, MGA Modeling to Generate Alternatives, LOPF Linear Optimal Power Flow, UK United Kingdom, CH Switzerland, US United States of America, DE Germany array of similarly costly but diverse technology mixes for the European power system, and derive a set of rules that must be satisﬁed to keep costs within pre-deﬁned ranges. Additionally, we investigate how the extent of investment ﬂexibility changes as we apply more ambitious greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets up to a complete decarbonization and allow varying levels of relative cost
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Real-time Modeling of Offshore Wind Turbines for Transient Simulation and Studies Thai-Thanh Nguyen ECE Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY , USA tnguyen clarkson.eduTuyen Vu ECE Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY , USA tvu clarkson.eduThomas Ortmeyer ECE Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY , USA tortmeye clarkson.edu George Stefopoulos Advanced Grid Innovation Lab for Energy New York Power Authority White Plains, NY , USA Georgios.Stefopoulos nypa.govGreg Pedrick New York Power Authority White Plains, NY , USA Gregory.Pedrick nypa.govJason MacDowell GE Power Schenectady, NY , USA jason.macdowell ge.com Abstract The real-time models of offshore wind turbines are proposed in this study, which are developed in compliance with the Western Electricity Coordinating Council (WECC) standard to meet the industry requirements. In addition to basic functionalities of the generic WECC turbine model such as power curtailment and voltage ride through, the sequence current control and sequence current limit are designed for future electromagnetic transient (EMT) testing and control of offshore wind farms. Both average-value and switching detailed models are modeled in the Opal-RT simulator. Both balanced and unbalanced faults are studied to show the feasibility of the proposed turbine models. The models are validated against the WECC second-generation generic wind turbine model. The active and reactive power results for low-voltage ride through cases validated the turbine model s performance against WECC generic model in the balanced system. In addition, the models provide extended capability in mitigating the active power oscillation during unbalanced fault conditions. Index Terms Offshore wind turbines, direct drives, permanent magnet synchronous generators; negative sequence current control, turbine model validation. I. I NTRODUCTION Offshore wind energies have recently attracted considerable attention because of the necessity for decarbonisation and the decrease of fossil fuels, as well as their ability to produce more wind power at a higher efﬁciency than onshore wind energy systems 1 . Thanks to the fast advancement of offshore wind turbine technology, the offshore wind system is now cost-competitive with direct-drive multi-megawatt turbines. The problem of gearbox failure is addressed by advanced technology of the direct-drive turbine systems, resulting in an increase in the usage of high-power direct-drive turbines capable of producing up to 15 MW 2 , 3 . Offshore wind projects are getting bigger as developer experience and industry maturity signiﬁcantly increase. Modeling of offshore wind turbines that meets industry standards is critical for assessing the performance of offshore wind projects. Various detailed electromagnetic transient (EMT) models of wind turbines have been presented, which have been developed using ofﬂine simulation tools like PSCAD EMTDC,EMTP, and MATLAB Simulink. These models, while allowing for the modeling and simulation of complicated turbine models for transient simulation, are not real-time and are generally sluggish. A generic EMT-type turbine model with a 2 MW capability has been presented in 4 , with the proposed model being validated against ﬁeld testing of the ENERCON E-82 2.3 MW turbine. In 5 , a 5 MW PMSG wind turbine model with low-voltage ride-through capabilities has been introduced, which is assessed using the US grid code. However, the proposed models in 4 and 5 were designed based on the phasor domain (positive sequence),which may result in improper protection system functioning under some imbalanced situations owing to the lack of negative sequence current contribution during the fault. Furthermore, during unbalanced fault conditions, the presence of negative sequence voltage produces second-order harmonic oscillations in output active power and DC-link voltage. 6 . A 1.5 MW wind turbine model based on symmetrical components was presented in 7 , with the capacity to inject negative sequence current during unbalanced faults. The sequence-based detailed switching (DSW) and averaged- value (A VG) models were also examined, but neither was implemented in real time. In addition, the A VG model could not adequately capture the DSW model s dynamic responses. According to the CPU-usage measurements in 7 , the DSW model used 144.7 s of CPU time for a 1 s simulation time period, whereas the A VG model consumed 28.8 s. Therefore, there is still a research need to ﬁll, as well as a requirement to develop and test real-time turbine models. Real-time models of wind turbines have been presented in the literature 8 11 . These models, however, depict small wind turbines with capacities of 1.5 MW and 2 MW, which are insufﬁcient for offshore wind farms that incorporate turbines power of more than 6 MW due to the lack of voltage- ride through capability. In addition, these models do not have the capacity to regulate negative sequences and have not been validated against any international standards. To overcome these limitations, this study proposes real-time DSWarXiv:2108.08900v2 eess.SY 4 Feb 2022 and A VG turbine models of high-power direct-drive PMSG wind turbines for offshore wind studies. The proposed models are validated against the Western Electricity Coordinating Council (WECC) standard to ensure that they are applicable for practical studies. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: Real-time models of high-power direct-drive wind turbines that meet international standards are proposed. Both detailed switching and average-value models are developed and evaluated by the real-time simulator. The proposed sequence-based real-time turbine models are capable of injecting negative sequence current during unbalanced faults. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Detailed wind turbine model and its control system in accordance with the WECC standard are presented in Section II. Section III describes the model validation against the WECC standard. Section IV presents the evaluation of both DSW and A VG models under normal and abnormal conditions including balanced and unbalanced dynamic studies. Finally, the main ﬁndings of this paper is summarized in Section V. II. W INDTURBINE MODELING A. Conﬁguration of Direct-drive PMSG Wind Turbine The typical conﬁguration of the direct-drive PMSG wind turbines is depicted in Fig. 1, in which the wind turbine is directly connected with the rotor of the synchronous generator. The back-to-back (BTB) converter, which consists of a machine-side converter (MSC), a grid-side converter (GSC), and a DC chopper, is linked to the stator winding of the PMSG. The MSC is
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	PROCEEDINGS ______ The 5 th International Symposium on Sustainable Development _ ______ ISSD 2014 187 P a g e INVESTIGATION OF A BIOMASS GASIFICATION SYSTEM BASED ON ENERGY AND EXERGY ANALYSIS Abbas Alpaslan Kocer 1 , Yunus Emre Yuksel 2 , Murat Ozturk 3 1 Uluborlu Selahattin Karasoy Vocational School, Suleyman Demirel University, 32260, Isparta Turkey, alpaslankocer sdu.edu.tr 2 Department of Science and Education, Education Faculty, Afyon Kocatepe University, 03200, Afyon, Turkey, yeyuksel aku.edu.tr 3 Department of Mechatronic s Engineering, Faculty of Technology, Suleyman Demirel University, 32260, Isparta Turkey, muratozturk sdu.edu.tr Abstract Biomass gasification procedure is a very complex process and it is influenced by man y physical and chemical factors such as biomass gasification temperature and gasifier type. Thermodynamic assessment methodology based on the energy and exergy analysis can be used to evaluate the system performance and environmental impacts. In this paper , thermodynamic analysis of the biomass gasification system is given for the whole system and its components. The parametric studies reveal the effects of design and operating indicators on the exergy efficiency and exergy destruction rate. The result show s that the gasification temperatures for the biomass gasification system change significantly with the type of the gasifying medium. Keywords: Biomass gasification, energy analysis, exergy analysis, parametric study. brought to you by CORE View metadata, citation and similar papers at core.ac.uk provided by International Burch University ISSD 2014 The 5 th International Symposium on Sustainable Development _ _ _ ____ PROCEE DINGS 188 P a g e 1. Introduct ion Energy is a key indicator for social, cultural and economic development of any country, and also is evaluated as an important aspect for sustainable development. It has been clearly seen that the energy production and consumption rate of a country is proportional to its economic status. By extension, the development of a country can be quantified as a ratio of its energy consumption per capita. Fossil energy sources, such as crude oil and natural gas, have been and refined to serve a dramatic growth in world population especially since the 1970s. Nevertheless, it is usually indicated that fossil energy sources are not sufficient to meet the constantly expanding needs of humanity. Conventional energy sources are non - renewable; they draw on finite sources that will finally dwindle, becoming more expensive or environmentally damaging to retrieve. Actually, at the nowadays consumption rate, conventional energy sources are reaching a natural discharge limitation with ongoing depletion Ozturk et al., 2008 . M oreover, having relied merely on conventional energy sources has exhibited different significant environmental damages. Renewable energy sources are one of the most promising solutions for this energy demand. Alternative energy sources should preferentiall y be more environmentally and economical than conventional fossil energy sources in order to present wide scale applications. On the other hand, global warming, air pollution, acid precipitation, ozone depletion, forest destruction, and emission of radioac tive substances are among the significant environmental problems Ozturk et al., 2009 . Clean energy conversion and production variations with lower environmental concern should be obtained by considering all mentioned issues simultaneously Dincer, 2000 . The usage of alternative energy sources provides a clean way to reduce the emissions of poisonous gases, such as CO, CO 2 , NO x and SO x . As an important example, in Turkey, approximately 25 of greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by usage of renewable e nergy sources. Many developed and developing countries installed intensive search plans in the before 1970s to install renewable energy technologies and change fossil energy sources Ozturk et al., 2011 . The renewable energy technologies are the flat - pl ate solar panel installation for roofs of the residential and commercial building for heating and hot water production applications; photovoltaic (PV) system, wind turbine and ocean system for the electricity production; water splitting for hydrogen output ; and biomass or bio - waste for conversion to gaseous fuel sources via gasification system for heat, steam or electricity generation. Biomass is a large potential renewable energy sources, supplied from plants and animal wastes. It is one of the oldest re newable energy sources and has been used by humankind for daily needs since centuries Toonssen et al., 2008 . To produce energy from biomass, the most preferred method is conventional combustion of biomass. This technique is not only valid in Turkey but a lso throughout the World. According to method which produces energy from biomass, biomass techniques are classified as classic and modern biomass. Classic biomass is the most popular method until now and this procedure consists of burning biomass such as w ood, plant residues, and animal dung. Modern biomass technologies are new relative to classic ones and modern biomass is still on the development stages. In modern biomass technique, biomass is converted into solid, liquid or gas fuels by means of bio - chem ical and thermo - chemical processes. Investigations of the thermodynamic system are complex processes and involve consideration of the system components and their characteristic, chemical reaction and thermodynamic loss. Energy conversion technologies suc h as biomass gasification system should be investigated for their performance by using the first and second laws of thermodynamic (or energy and and exergy analysis). The use of exergy analysis should allow the determination of the processes PROCEEDINGS ______ The 5 th International Symposium on Sustainable Development _ ______ ISSD 2014 189 P a g e having the gre atest irreversibilities, as well as the causes and locations of the irreversibilities. Exergy analysis also would allow exergy efficiencies to be determined for whole system and its components. These important indicators should be used in design or retrofi t of the process for increasing system performance. In this paper, energy and exergy analysis of the biomass gasification system and energy and exergy efficiencies of the system components are investigated for better system design. The simulations have bee n performed using Engineering Equation Solver (EES) software program. The following is a general outline of the present study; To investigate the
__label__energy	2023. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 . This is the accepted version see formal published version by following this link: https: doi.org 10.1007 s11367-023-02147-z 1 Planning sustainable carbon neutrality pathways: accounting challenges experienced by organizations and solutions from industrial ecology A. de Bortoli1,2 , Anders Bjørn3, François Saunier1, Manuele Margni1,4 1 CIRAIG, École Polytechnique de Montréal, P.O. Box 6079, Montréal, Québec, H3C 3A7, Canada 2 LVMT, Ecole des Ponts ParisTech, Université Gustave Eiffel, 5 boulevard Descartes Champs-sur-Marne 77454 Marne-la-Vallée Cedex2, France 3 Department of Management, John Molson School of Business, Concordia University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada. 4 HES-SO, University of Applied Sciences and Arts Western Switzerland, Institute of Sustainable Energy, Sion, Wallis, Switzerland Corresponding author: Anne de Bortoli, CIRAIG, École Polytechnique de Montréal, P.O. Box 6079, Montréal, Québec, H3C 3A7, Canada. e-mail : anne.debortoli polymtl.ca Abstract Purpose: Planning a transition towards sustainable carbon neutrality at the organization level raises several accounting challenges. This paper aims to shed light on key challenges, highlight answers from current accounting standards and guidance, point out potential inconsistencies or limits, and outline potential solutions from the industrial ecology community through systemic environmental assessment tools, such as life cycle assessment (LCA) and environmentally-extended input-output (EEIO) analysis. Method: The study is based on the accounting difficulties related to GHG emissions as well as other sustainability concerns (environmental, social and financial), reported to the authors by multiple organizations in developing carbon neutrality plans. The study then draws on a literature review of carbon neutrality-related standards and guidelines, as well as industrial ecology studies, to identify answers to these reported challenges. Results and discussion : We propose a Measure-Reduce-Neutralize-Control sequence allowing organizations to plan their sustainable net-zero strategy, and discuss 24 accounting challenges occurring within this sequence. We then outline ways forward for organizations planning their carbon neutrality trajectory pointing to existing 2023. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 . This is the accepted version see formal published version by following this link: https: doi.org 10.1007 s11367-023-02147-z 2 resources , and for guidelines providers and the industrial ecology communities to address current limitations in the development of future accounting methods and guidelines. Overarching solutions to many accounting issues are to develop comprehensive, open-source, and high-quality life cycle inventory databases, to enable improved dynamic assessments and prospective LCA through integrated assessment models, to refine methods for assessing mineral scarcity and environmental impacts the supply in some metals being expected to be a bottleneck to the energy transition , and to identify the appropriate climate metrics for planning sustainable carbon neutrality pathways at the organizational level. Conclusion : Organizations are currently facing difficulties in robustly accounting for emissions in the context of carbon neutrality goals, and these difficulties appear to be partially caused by discrepancies between standards, tools, and databases. The industrial ecology community has a key role to play in harmonizing these resources and making them more useful for planning sustainable carbon neutrality pathways. Keywords : sustainable carbon neutrality plans; net-zero; organizations; key accounting challenges; guidelines; LCA; EEIO; 2023. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 . This is the accepted version see formal published version by following this link: https: doi.org 10.1007 s11367-023-02147-z 3 1. Introduction 1.1. The rising popularity of carbon neutrality The climate crisis has rapidly increased the popularity of the terms carbon neutrality and net-zero , revealing serious greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting challenges for organizations regarding methodologies, data, tools, and standards. Following the Paris Agreement, the United Nations member states have agreed to hold the increase of global mean temperature well below 2 C and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 C (United Nations 2015). In this respect, an increasing number of public and private bodies are adopting climate targets and engaging in net- zero pathways (Net Zero Tracker 2022). As an example, more than 2000 companies already committed to setting Science-Based Targets (SBT) (Science-Based Targets 2023). Also, more than 13000 corporations, 1000 cities, and almost 100 states and regions, report disparate environmental metrics related to their transition through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (CDP 2022a). But the lack of harmonized framework and comprehensive guidance related to net-zero target-setting raise the question of the integrity of carbon neutrality claims1 (ADEME 2022; Day et al. 2022; NewClimate Institute et al. 2022). In addition, it is unclear what challenges organizations face when aiming to quantitatively plan their carbon neutrality pathways. In parallel, research in carbon neutrality is growing rapidly. Although the term is new to many organizations, research in carbon neutrality has a long record: the term was first used in the mid-1990s by Schlamadinger et al. (1995), who paved the way for more than 900 articles (Wei et al. 2022). Despite a large academic mobilization, the industrial ecology community has mainly been involved indirectly so far by developing and discussing life cycle accounting rules (Finkbeiner and Bach 2021). Indeed, industrial ecology is an applied science whose aim is to provide sounded recommendations to decrease the environmental pressures generated by production and consumption systems. It thus relies on core environmental quantification methods, developed over several decades, that must be enlightening to sketch sustainable carbon neutrality pathways, i.e., a net-zero trajectory that does not involve unacceptable burden shifts to other environmental and socio-economic impacts. 1 In this study the terms carbon neutrality and net zero are used interchangeably for a state where an organization s greenhouse gas emissions are either zero or balanced out by removals of CO 2 from the atmosphere. 2023. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 . This is the accepted version see formal published version by following this link: https: doi.org 10.1007 s11367-023-02147-z 4 The first objective of this paper aims to shed light on the key accounting challenges experienced by organizations to plan sustainable carbon neutrality trajectories. The second objective of this paper
__label__energy	Resilience of natural gas networks during conﬂicts, crises and disruptions Rui Carvalho,1, Lubos Buzna,2Flavio Bono,3, 1Marcelo Masera,4David K. Arrowsmith,1and Dirk Helbing5, 6 1School of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS, U.K. 2University of Zilina, Univerzitna 8215 1, 01026 Zilina, Slovakia 3European Laboratory for Structural Assessment, Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen (IPSC), Joint Research Centre, Via. E. Fermi, 2749 TP 480, Ispra 21027 (VA), Italy 4Energy Security Unit, Institute for Energy and Transport, Joint Research Centre, Westerduinweg 3,NL-1755 LE Petten, The Netherlands 5ETH Zurich, Clausiusstrasse 50, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland 6Risk Center, ETH Zurich, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Scheuchzerstrasse 7, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland Human conﬂict, geopolitical crises, terrorist attacks, and natural disasters can turn large parts of energy distribution networks o ine. Europe s current gas supply network is largely dependent on deliveries from Russia and North Africa, creating vulnerabilities to social and political instabilities. During crises, less delivery may mean greater congestion, as the pipeline network is used in ways it has not been designed for. Given the importance of the security of natural gas supply, we develop a model to handle network congestion on various geographical scales. We o er a resilient response strategy to energy shortages and quantify its e ectiveness for a variety of relevant scenarios. In essence, Europe s gas supply can be made robust even to major supply disruptions, if a fair distribution strategy is applied. Keywords: networked risks congestion control complex networks Almost everything we do in the course of a day involves the use of energy. Yet, history has taught us that the threats to the security of supply come in unexpected ways 1,2 . Examples of unforeseen energy crises include the recent disputes between Russia and Ukraine over the price of natural gas (2005 2006, 2007 2008, 2008 2009) 3 , the disruption of the oil and gas production industry in the US following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita (2005) 4 , the terrorist attack on the Amenas gas plant that a ected more than 10 of Algerian production of natural gas (2013) 5 , and the supply shortage in March 2013, when the UK had only 6 hours worth of gas left in storage as a bu er 6 . New vulnerabilities could come from cyber attacks to the infrastructure 1 , particularly in the case of state-driven attacks 2 ; be the result of prolonged uncertainty or inaction on energy security in the US or Europe 7 ; or derive from an extended period of extremely volatile prices due to intense international conﬂict 2 . Natural gas, a fossil fuel that accounts for 24 of energy consumption in OECD-Europe 8 , has been at the heart of these crises. Gas is expensive to transport, and this is done mainly over a pipeline network. The investments are large and are made with long-term horizons, often of decades, and the costs are covered by locking buyers into long-term con- tracts 9 . Moreover, current infrastructure investments in Europe still derive from a historical dependency on supply from Russia and North Africa 10 . This dependency leaves the European continent exposed to both a pipeline network that was not designed to transport large quantities of gas imported via Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG) terminals, and to the e ects of political and social instabilities in countries that are heavily dependent either on the export of natural gas (e.g., Algeria, Libya, Qatar or Russia) or its transit (e.g., Ukraine). Hence, it is challenging to build infrastructure that will be resilient to a r.carvalho qmul.ac.uk FIG. 1. Spatial data layers involved in our analysis: population density (Landscan 2012); gas pipeline network and Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG) terminals (Platts 2011); and major urban areas (European Environment Agency and Natural Earth). wide range of possible crisis scenarios 11 . In a crisis, less delivery may mean greater congestion. This is due to the breakdown of major transit routes or production losses in a ected areas, which cause the supply network to be used in di erent ways from what it was designed for. Hence, the available resources cannot be distributed well with the remaining transport capacities 12 13,14 . This is why we need a method to handle congestion. To manage the gas pipeline network during crises, we pro- pose a decentralized model of congestion control that dis- tributes the available network capacity to each route, without sacriﬁcing network throughput 21 23 . A central controller makes the system vulnerable both to attacks on the control centre and to delays and failures of the lines of communication through the network 21 . In contrast, a decentralized method is more resilient to failures because damage to the networkarXiv:1311.7348v1 physics.soc-ph 28 Nov 2013 2 has only a local e ect and the need for communication is re- duced. To illustrate our model, we analyse the throughput of the present and planned pipeline networks across a range of di erent crisis scenarios at European, country and urban levels. The most challenging scenario corresponds to a hypothetical crisis with Russia with a complete cut-o of supply to Europe. We analyse how to alleviate the impact of such scenarios, by the identiﬁcation of country groups with similar interests, which should cooperate closely to manage congestion on the network. This acknowledges that many of the 21st century challenges, such as the management of energy grids and infrastructure networks 15 17 , cannot be solved by technology alone, but do have a relevant behavioural or social component 18 20 . RESULTS Data set and model Our data set is organized in four layers (see Supplemen- tary Information Databases ), three of which are shown in Figure 1. The ﬁrst layer is the population density, which we compute from the 2012 Landscan global population data set. The second layer is the European gas pipeline network and Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG) terminals, which we extract from the Platts 2011 geospatial data set. This infrastructure is a spa-
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	OFFSHORE-WIND ENERGY RENEWABLE ENERGY Wind energy potential of the German Bight Limits and consequences of large-scale oﬀshore wind energy use Axel Kleidon The wind blows stronger and more reliably over the sea than over land. Thus, oﬀshore wind energy is expected to make a major contribution to the energy transition in Germany, especially in the German Bight. But what happens when a growing number of wind farms extract more and more wind energy from the atmosphere? The challenges of the energy transition for the next decades in Germany are enormous. It is true that 15.9 of primary energy demand was already covered by renewable energy in 2021 1 , and a lower energy demand is expected in the future due to more modern technologies such as heat pumps and electromobility. However, the transition to a complete, sustainable energy system that is free of fossil fuels is still a long way oﬀ. Many energy transition scenarios focus on the expansion of a combination of solar and wind energy. These two types of renewable energy have the greatest potential in Germany 2 and complement each other very well over the course of the year: while the Sun can supply a particularly large amount of renewable energy in summer, it fails in winter. This can be compensated for by wind energy, as the dark winter months are usually stormier than the summer. Wind power generation at sea plays a special role in these scenarios. Wind blows stronger and more continuously at sea than on land, so it can generate electricity more eﬃciently and reliably. In Germany, expansion is planned mainly in the German Bight of the North Sea, where the exclusive economic zone - i.e. the part of the sea that is administered by Germany beyond the territorial sea - oﬀers considerably more surface area than the Baltic Sea. For example, wind farms with 6.7 GW of installed capacity are currently located in the North Sea, compared to only 1.1 GW in the Baltic Sea (as of 2021, 3 ). In 2021, these wind farms contributed about 24 TWh a or 4.9 to the German electricity demand of 491 TWh a, which means that the turbines were utilized to an average of 35 - the so-called capacity factor 3 . Wind turbines at sea were thus almost twice as productive as on land, where the capacity factor was only 18 . By 2050, it is assumed that the use of oﬀshore wind energy will increase signiﬁcantly more than on land, i.e. onshore. In its coalition agreement, the German government has targeted the expansion of oﬀshore wind energy to 70 GW, i.e. roughly a tenfold increase in currently installed capacity. Onshore, there is already 56 GW of turbine capacity, and an expansion to around 200 GW is expected here, distributed over 2 of the country s surface area. However, with 357,000 km2 there is considerably more space than in the exclusive economic zone of the North Sea, which is only 28,600 km2 in size. So the plans envisage a much more intensive use of wind energy at sea than on land. And because each wind turbine draws energy from the atmosphere and thus weakens the winds, the question arises whether, with such a strong expansion, the turbines could take the wind away from each other and thus endanger the high yields. of 110 Translated version Originally published in German - Cite as: Kleidon, A. (2023) Windenergie in der Deutschen Bucht , Physik in unserer Zeit, 54(1), 30-36. https: doi.org 10.1002 piuz.202201654 Wind energy in the German Bight This question was examined in a report by Agora Energiewende on the wind energy potential of the North Sea 5 . I worked scientiﬁcally on this report and want to present the results here in a comprehensible way. This study has also already been taken into account in the current, oﬃcial planning of oﬀshore wind energy in Germany. In the following, I will go through the steps necessary to determine the potential for electricity generation by wind energy use in the German Bight. In particular, I want to make the eﬀect of wind extraction by the turbines physically plausible. In the ﬁrst step, we determined the areas that are potentially available for the expansion of wind energy (Figure 1). There is a whole range of diﬀerent uses of the sea. These include, of course, shipping, which needs routes, certain areas are designated as nature reserves, there are areas used for military purposes, and areas are needed for submarine cables and supply lines. These areas preclude wind energy use, which signiﬁcantly reduces the total area available. The usable areas can be roughly divided into two areas separated by a wide route for shipping: the coastal area 1 (blue in Figure 1) with 2767 km2 and the far-from-the-coast area 2 (red) with 4473 km2. Next, we need technical information on the turbines that will be placed in these areas. For this purpose, we choose a hypothetical 12 MW turbine with a rotor diameter of 200 m, which corresponds to the speciﬁcations of the currently most powerful turbines. The power generation of a single turbine is described by the so-called power curve. It shows how much electricity an of 210 56.056.0 55.055.0 54.054.0 3.03.0 4.04.0 5.05.0 6.06.0 7.07.0 8.08.0 9.09.0 Area 1Area 2Denmark Schleswig HolsteinThe NetherlandsLower SaxonyHelgolandNorth SeaFINO-1 Abbildung 2: Flächen der Deutschen Bucht, die zum Ausbau der Windenergie genutzt werden können. Die küstennahen Flächen in dunkelblau werden hier als Gebiet 1 bezeichnet, während die roten, küstenfernen Flächen als Gebiet 2 zusammengefasst werden. Die Lage der FINO-1 Messstation ist durch den weissen Kreis markiert. Karte modiﬁziert nach 5 . 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 56 55 54 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 55 54 Fig.1 Areas of the German Bight that can be used for the development of wind energy. The areas close to the coast in dark blue are referred to here as area 1, the red areas far from the coast as area 2.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	The short version of this paper was presented at virtual CUE2021, Sept 4 8, 2021. This paper is a substantial extension of the short version of conference paper. This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (52007123) Corresponding authors: Xinwei Shen (sxw.tbsi sz. tsinghua.edu.cn), Hongbin Sun (shb tsinghua.edu.cn). Abstract-- The concept of low-carbon building is proposed to ameliorate the climate change caused by environmental problems and realize carbon neutrality at the building level in urban areas. In addition, renewable energy curtailment in the power distribution system, as well as low efficiency due to independent operation of traditional energy systems, has been addressed by the application of integrated energy system (IES) to some extent. In this paper, we propose a planning method for low-carbon building-level IES, in which electric vehicles (EV) and the mode of Vehicle to Grid (V2G) are considered and further increase the flexibility of low-carbon buildings. The proposed planning model optimize the investment, operation costs and CO2 emission for building-level IES, so as to achieve the maximum benefit of the construction of the low-carbon building and help the realization of carbon neutrality. Moreover, we consider the uncertainty of distributed renewable energy, multi-energy load fluctuation and the random behavior of EV users, then formulating a two-stage stochastic programming model with chance constraints, in which heuristic moment matching scenario generation (HMMSG) and sample average approximation (SAA) method are applied. In case study, a real IES commercial building in Shanghai, where photovoltaic (PV), energy storage system (ESS), fuel cell (FC), EV, etc. are included as planning options, is used as numerical example to verify the effectiveness of the proposed planning method, with functions of ESS and EV in IES are analyzed in detail in different operation scenarios. Index Terms-- Low-carbon building-level integrated energy system, stochastic programming, chance constraint, electric vehicle, energy storage system NOMENCLATURE Abbreviations: IES Integrated Energy System EV Electric Vehicle V2G Vehicle to Grid HMMSG Heuristic Moment Matching Scenario Generation SAA Sample Average Approximation ESS Energy Storage System FC Fuel Cell CCTS Chance-Constrained Two-Stage EH Energy Hub SOFC Solid Oxide Fuel Cell PEM Polymer Electrolyte Membrane PV Photovoltaic SOC State of Charge P2G Power to gas Sets: Set of fuel cell to be selected Set of the parking period of EV Indices: i Index of different kind of FC t Index of time hour j Index of EVs e,h,g,l Index of different kind of energy s Index of scenario ch dis Index of charge discharge Parameters: IC Investment cost of equipment m Coefficient to convert costs Discount rate of cash PP Planning period N Number of scenarios r Cost of electricity gas Tax for carbon emission Emission coefficient of fuel grid p Penalty of substandard SOC level NEV Number of EVs Load of the building-level IES Coupling matrix of EH model Charge Discharge efficiency of ESS EV Charge Discharge efficiency of ESS EV Maximum full charge times of BESS Proportion of substandard scenarios Maximum power of the grid Maximum power of FC Power of EV charger Maximum power of the PV Capacity of EV Variables: Vector Matrix of decision variables Capacity of ESS that will be invested, unit: kWh Numbers of FC that will be invested, unit: sets Output of the grid at time t in scenario s, unit: kW WparkingY gtaxCeLChaBESSchTVmaxGridP,maxFCiPthiEVchargerPmaxPVPmaxEVEX,P,Y,ZESSXFCiXthi,GridstPA Stochastic Planning Method for Low-carbon Building-level Integrated Energy System Considering Electric-Heat-V2G Coupling Zuxun Xiong a, Xinwei Shen a,b, , Qinglai Guo a,c, Hongbin Sun a,c, a Tsinghua-Berkeley Shenzhen Institute, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China b Institute for Ocean Engineering, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China c Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China b Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 2 Gas that the FC consumes at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Electricity output of FC at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Heating output of FC at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Charge power of ESS at time t in s, unit: kW Discharge power of ESS at time t in s, unit: kW Charge power of the EV at time t in s, unit: kW Discharge power of the EV at t in s, unit: kW Output of the PV at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Energy stored in ESS at time t in scenario s, unit: kWh Energy stored in the EV at time t in scenario s, unit: kWh Energy of the EV when it leaves in scenario s, unit: kWh Random vector Binary variable which indicates the charge state of ESS EV Binary variable which indicates the scenario is standard or not I. INTRODUCTION limate change caused by environmental problems is a significant issue of common concern to all mankind. More than 70 countries have committed to working toward net-zero emissions by 2050 and to enhance their international climate pledges under the Paris Agreement to ensure that global warming is controlled below 2 degrees Celsius. Among them, China proposes to reach the peak of carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. In this context, renewable energy such as photovoltaic (PV) and wind energy has developed rapidly. Besides, the rapid development of equipment like fuel cell (FC), which could be fueled by clean energy, and able to supply both electricity and heat, will further accelerate the process of achieving zero carbon emission. Moreover, the penetration rate of electric vehicles (EV) is increasing. With the development of vehicle to grid (V2G) related technologies, EVs have great application potential in both reducing carbon emissions and increasing the flexibility of the grid. However, these may also bring more problems and challenges to the energy system. To cope with such problems and make better use of the strong coupling and synergy between different energy systems, the concept of Energy Internet has become another important topic in the energy industry after the Smart Grid 1 . As the physical carrier of the Energy Internet, Integrated Energy System (IES)
__label__energy	Materials for High Temperature Digital Electronics Dhiren K. Pradhan,1,a David C. Moore,2,a A. Matt Francis,3 Jacob Kupernik,3 W. Joshua Kennedy,2 Nicholas R. Glavin,2 Roy H. Olsson III,1 Deep Jariwala1, 1Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA 2Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright -Patterson AFB, OH, 45433, USA 3Ozark Integrated Circuits, Fayetteville, AR , 72701 , USA Abstract Silicon microelectronics, consisting of complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) technology, have changed nearly all aspects of human life from communication to transportation, entertainment, and healthcare. Despite the widespread and mainstream use, current silicon -based devices suffer significant reliability issues at temperatures exceeding 125 C. The emergent technological frontiers of space exploration, geothermal energy harvesting, nuclear energy, unmanned avionic systems, and autonomous driving will rely on control systems, sensors, and communication devices which operate at temperatures as high as 500 C and beyond. At these extreme temperatures, active (heat exchanger, phase change cooling) or passive (fins and thermal interface materials) cooling strategies add significant mass and complication which is often infeasible. Thus, new material solutions beyond conventional silicon CMOS devices are necessary for high temperature, resilient electronic systems. Accomplishing this will require a united effort to explore development, integration, and ultimately manufac turing of non -silicon -based logic and memory technologies, non -traditional metals for interconnects, and ceramic packaging technology. a Dhiren K. Pradhan and David C. Moore contributed equally to this work. Authors to whom correspondence should be addressed: dmj seas.upenn.edu . Introduction: The pervasive demand for embedded electronic systems necessitates development and adoption of electronic computers in non -traditional environments , such a s those with high (high - T) or low temperature s, high levels of radiation , or highly corrosive chemicals . In this regard, the application space for high temperature electronics is particularly rich and diverse , requiring new materials solutions for high temperature operation . These include the rapid expansion in avionics and space industries and advanced geo -thermal exploration and nuclear power to meet the growing worldwide energy needs. The automotive industry has used semiconductor chips operating in the 150 C temperature range for electronic control of internal combustion engines since the 1980 s and more recently in cooling systems of electric motors.1,2 The recent increase in interest in high -T electronics is mainly driven by industries such as space, supersonic avionics , geothermal exploration and advanced automotives. Further, the advent of big -data computing has also necessitated rethinking of the limits and complexity of computing in high -T environment s. As a result, mere scaling, reliability and higher operating temperatures for logic devices is no longer the only consideration for advancement. The use of memory devices and performing data -heavy computi ng operations with limited logic components is equally important and necessary , which has added a new dimension to materials and device research for extreme electronics. Therefore, while numerous reviews exist on individual semiconductors and device classes for high -T electronics, an overarching review that covers all the materials and challenges from semiconductor to system level is notably lacking. Here, we provide a detailed literature review of not only the integrated electronic materials (i.e. semiconductors, metals, dielectrics) and devices (i.e. logic and memory) but also components such as packaging and bonding as summarized in Figure 1. Figure 1: Schematic overview figure illustrating the various materials classes critical for high -T digital electronic applications. Selected candidate materials are listed in each class. 1. Applications and opportunities for high temperature resilient electronics Since the late 1970 s, the materials, devices, interfaces, and components within silicon integrated circuits have been highly susceptible to degradation and failure at elevated temperatures.3,4 As a result of these high -T instabilities, the mil -specified limit for operation of most silicon devices is typically restricted to below 125 -175 C, although many of the electronic components may operate at higher temperatures for a short period of time (Box 1) .5 In ambient environments, overheating of device components are typically mitigated by passive or active cooling strategies,6,7 but these can be impractical in conditions where the surrounding environmental temperature is elevated resulting in failure of silicon devices (Box 2) . To combat the exceptionally high junction leakage current experienced in silicon devices at elevated temperatures, silicon -on-insulator (SOI) technology has been employed for device operation up to about 300 C.8 This is accomplished via introduction of a dielectric layer on top of the bulk CMOS substrate underneath the semiconductor can reduce leakage currents by as much as three orders of magnitude at 250 C.9,10 Moreover, the output conductance has actually been shown to improve as temperature is increased in SOI architectures.11 SOI Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field effect Transistors ( MOSFET s) have demonstrated operating at temperatures even approaching 450 C,10 albeit for a short period of time with reduced functionality, and have even expanded into use cases for high temperature flexible12 and RF13 devices. In general, however, SOI technology is fairly restricted to temperatures below 300 C, with new materials solutions required for higher temperatures. The use cases for electronics operating 300 C is summarized in Box 1 and Table 1 below. Most of the above high -T electronic applications have been analog in nature. The clear need for digital electronics for high -T environments stems for the need for more sensors which in turn leads to the computing and feedback control in -situ which is unfea sible with analog electronics. Further, interpretation of collected data requires use of neural network architectures, which, while easy to implement in software, may not have the hardware for implementation at elevated temperatures. Keeping this in mind, scaling and performance enhancement of digital logic combined with use of memory (both volatile and non -volatile) is critical. These aspects of digital electronics hardware for high -T operation are highlighted and discussed below in detail. Box 1: Use cases for High -T ( 300 C) electronics There have long been energy -centric, critical applications in harsh environment s, or environmental conditions
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	XXX- X-XXXX- XXXX- X XX XX.00 20XX IEEE Hydrogen Penetration and Fuel Cell Vehi cle Deployment in the Carbon Constrained Future Energy System Andrew Chapman ,1, Dinh Hoa Nguyen1, Hadi Farabi -Asl2, Kenshi Itaoka1, Katsuhiko Hirose1, Yasumasa Fujii3 1Energy Analysis Division, International Institute for Carbon Neutral Energy Research , Fukuoka 819-0395, Japan 2Research Institute for Humanity and Nature (RIHN), Kyoto 603-8047, Japan 3Department of Nuclear Engineering and Management, Univ ersity of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan chapman i2cner.kyushu-u.ac.jp , hoa.nd i2cner.kyushu-u.ac.jp , farabi chikyu.ac.jp , k.itaoka i2cner.kyushu-u.ac.jp , katsuhiko_hirose_aa mail.toyota.co.jp, fujii n.t.u -tokyo.ac.jp Abstract This research details outcomes from a global model which estimates future hydrogen penetration into a carbon constrained energy system to the year 2050. Fo cusing on minimum and maximum penetration scenarios, an investigation of global fuel cell vehicle (FCV) deployment is undertaken, cognizant of optimal economic deployment at the global level and stakeholder preferences in a case study of Japan. Th e model i s mathematically formulated as a very large -scale linear optimization problem , aiming to minimize system cost s, including generation type, fuel costs, conversion cost s, and carbon reduction cost s, subject to the constraint of carbon dioxide reductions for each nation . Results show that between approximately 0.8 and 2 of global energy consumption needs can be met by hydrogen out to the year 2050, with city gas and transport emerging as significant use cases. Passenger FCVs and hydrogen buses account f or almost all of the hydrogen- based transportation sector, leading to a global deployment of approximately 120 million FCVs by 2050. Hydrogen production is reliant on fossil fuels, and OECD nations are net importers especially Japan with a 100 import case. To underpin hydrogen production from fossil fuels, carbon capture and storage (CCS) is required in significant quantities when anticipating a large fleet of FCVs. Stakeholder engagement suggests optimism toward FCV deployment while policy issues identi fied include necessity for large-scale future energy system investment and rapid technical and economic feasibility progress for renewable energy technologies and electrolyzers to achieve a hydrogen economy that is not reliant on fossil fuels . Keywords hydrogen , FCV, stakeholder engagement , investment, preference, transport I. INTRODUCTION To contain global temperature rises to within 2 degrees Celsius of pre -industrial levels, the energy system must be rapidly decarboniz ed. If the more ambitious Paris Agreement target of 1.5 degree temperature constraint is to be met, the global energy system must be carbon neutral by the year 2050. Carbon reduction must be undertaken comprehensively, incorporating the electricity sector, tra nsportation fuels and the use of complementary carbon dioxide (CO 2) removal technologies , while increasing overall electrification levels 1 . The Paris Agreement provides the mechanism for nations to reduce their CO 2 levels, known as National Determined Contributions (NDCs ; 2 ) which will allow the global energy system to reach a peak in carbon emissions in the short term, with medium to long term goals of rapid reduction in GHG levels, differentiated according to individual nations ability to reduce emi ssions over time 3 . Moving away from the current fossil fuel dominated energy regime will not be simple, and will require a rapid transition toward alternative energy sources, prominent among them solar and wind power, reputed for their low marginal cost , however, having the issue of intermittent supply and a necessity for energy to overcome this issue and provide a stable, low carbon energy system 4 . Hydrogen is one option for renewable energy storage, and more broad uses such as vehicle fuels or chem ical feedstocks. Hydrogen can assist in overcoming renewable energy intermittency issues, as part of the hydrogen economy. Hydrogen is not likely to be the single solution for the future low carbon energy system, but will be complemented by technologies such as carbon capture and storage (CCS) and emerging technologies such as Bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) and other negative emission technologies 5 . This research has three main aims: 1) to estimate the potential societal penetration of hydrogen across end us es, utilizing a global optimization -based model ; 2) to demonstrate the impacts of hydrogen penetration on society, focusing on the transportation sector (i.e. FCVs and other vehicle types ), and 3) to contrast model outcomes for the transportation sector with stakeholder preferences in the case study nation of Japan . This work represents a novel hybrid approach to transportation system modelling cognizant of both optimized model outcomes and stakeholder preferences. The remainder of this paper is divided into the following sections: Section II deals with the background, detailing previous scholarship on hydrogen deployment for transport, storage and industry at the regional and national level, while identifying the ga ps which are addressed here. Section III outlines the methodology used, for the optimization model, stakeholder engagement and focus on fuel cell vehicle deployment analysis. Section IV details the results for the global energy system for 2000 to 2050, inc luding hydrogen production sources and end uses, with a strong focus on the transport sector, system cost and carbon reduction issues alongside stakeholder preferences for future automobile purchase. Section V discusses the findings, bringing together mode l outcomes, policy issues and future challenges. Section VI outlines the conclusions. II. BACKGROUND Previous research has investigated the penetration of hydrogen into the future energy system, predominantly by end use or by specific sector. Th is section details pertinent research from the transport and industrial sector, storage and regional studies , clarifying the novelty of the present study. The transport sector has been rigorously studied, considering electric and hydrogen fueled vehicles from an economi c perspective, and in terms of an optimized transport sector 6-8 . The potential of electronic vehicles as an alternative to hydrogen vehicles, as discussed in this study, demonstrate d their potential positive impact on decreasing system costs , particular ly when renewable energy is prevalent 9 . A Malaysian study on the role of hydrogen in the future transport system was highlighted as a long-
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 The Role of Distributed Energy Resources in Distribution System Restoration Noah Rhodes and Line Roald Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison, WI nrhodes wisc.edu , roald wisc.edu Abstract With increasing levels of distributed energy resources (DERs) connected to the grid, it is important to understand the role that DERs can play in post-disaster restoration. In this paper, we propose a two-step optimization method to identify and implement an optimal restoration schedule under different DER operating scenarios. We investigate how the presence and geographical distribution of DERs change the optimal restoration order, and assess the impacts on customers with and without DERs. In our case study using the IEEE 123 single phase distribution system, we ﬁnd that optimal restoration order changes signiﬁcantly when DERs are concentrated in one part of the grid. We also observe that the presence of DERs generally reduces the energy not served across all customers and can help prioritize grid reconnection of customers without DERs. I. I NTRODUCTION Recovering the power grid quickly after a disaster is imperative to maintain quality of life and limit economic impacts. Extended outages can have severe impacts, as seen in Puerto Rico after hurricanes Irma and Maria, where customers on average went without electricity for 84 days 1 , or in California during the Public Safety Power Shutoffs in 2019 where millions of customers, including medical baseline customers 2 , were without power for several days 3 . Many methods to improve disaster resilience in electric power systems have been proposed, including preparedness and response to earthquakes 4 , wildﬁres 5 , and hurricanes 6 . In the context of post-disaster recovery, several studies have considered combined problems such as grid sectionalization and repair planning 7 , two stage problems considering component delivery and repair scheduling 8 , and joint optimization of repair crew routing and repair scheduling 9 . Others consider pre-disaster hardening of distribution grid components to limit outage size 10 , 11 , or leverage microgrid technology to provide black-start power 12 or alleviate impacts on islanded distribution systems 13 . In the future, Distributed Energy Resources (DERs), such as rooftop solar PV and electric vehicles, will likely play an increasingly important role in providing power during emergencies. DERs provide an opportuntity to support household load while the electrical system is damaged, and alleviate some of the impact of a power outage to their owners 14 . If the DERs can power not just a local building, but also create a microgrid within an isolated region, thismay improve the network capabilities even further 15 . However, the presence of DERs also raises new questions about equity, fairness and energy access among different customers in the restoration process. The owners of DERs like rooftop solar PV or an electric vehicle have a higher income than the national average 16 , 17 , while other customers may either lack the means or ability to install DERs (e.g., tenants in rented apartments). This may lead to an uneven distribution of DERs across the grid, as neighborhoods of different socio-economic background experience different penetration of DER technology. As DER penetrations increase, it is increasingly important to analyze the effects of such differences on customers both during normal operations and emergency situations. In this context, this paper aims to explore the impact of DERs in aiding power system restoration, and analyze how the presence of DERs affects DER owners and non-owners within the system. We examine how these results vary with different scenarios for DER operation, including scenarios where DERs either (i) disconnect (or stop working for other reasons) when the grid experiences an outage, (ii) power an individual home (a home microgrid) or (iii) exchange power with neighboring properties (a community microgrid). We also consider how the solutions differ in scenarios where DERs are distributed uniformly throughout the distribution feeder versus scenarios where DERs clustered within a speciﬁc region. In particular, we are interested in understanding how the presence of DERs interacts with the question of which parts of the grid to restore ﬁrst . We study this question in the context of the restoration ordering problem (ROP) 9 , which is a multi-time step optimization problem that identiﬁes an optimal restoration plan to minimize customer impacts. The ROP is very challenging to solve as it requires simultaneous consideration of a large number of damaged components and their respective on off status at each time step, leading to a large-scale, mixed-integer non-linear problem. An important modeling aspect is the choice of the power ﬂow formulation, which can have signiﬁcant impact on both the complexity and accuracy of the problem 18 . To obtain numerically tractable problem formulations, researchers either do not consider power ﬂow 4 , use simpliﬁed power ﬂow representations 8 , 9 , or employ the full AC power ﬂow representation 7 , 10 ). Here, we propose to use a simpliﬁed DC power ﬂow model in the mixed-integer ROP problemarXiv:2112.06317v1 eess.SY 12 Dec 2021 2 to identify a restoration order. Once the restoration order is known, we solve a continuous, multi-period AC optimal power ﬂow that determines the active and reactive power dispatch at each time step. While not guaranteed to be optimal, this approach has been shown to provide a good trade-off between problem scalability (system size and number of damaged elements) and solution quality 18 . In summary, the contribution of this paper is as follows. First, we formulate a model for restoration planning in distribution grids under different DER operating scenarios. To enable computational tractability, the restoration is modeled as a two-step process, where the ﬁrst step identiﬁes an optimal restoration plan and the second step simulates the implementation. We consider three different modes where the DERs are either unavailable, or operate as either a home or community microgrid. Second, we analyze the impact of different DER operational scenarios on the optimal restoration plan, and assess outcomes for customers with and without DERs. The remainder of the paper is organized as
__label__energy	1 Transmission Network Reduction Method using Nonlinear Optimization Philipp Fortenbacher , Turhan Demiray , Christian Schaffnery Research Center for Energy Networks (FEN) ETH Zurich, Switzerland ffortenbacher, demirayt g fen.ethz.chyEnergy Science Center (ESC) ETH Zurich, Switzerland schaffner esc.ethz.ch Abstract This paper presents a new method to determine the susceptances of a reduced transmission network representation by using nonlinear optimization. We use Power Transfer Distri- bution Factors (PTDFs) to convert the original grid into a re- duced version, from which we determine the susceptances. From our case studies we ﬁnd that considering a reduced injection- independent evaluated PTDF matrix is the best approximation and is by far better than an injection-dependent evaluated PTDF matrix over a given set of arbitrarily-chosen power injection scenarios. We also compare our nonlinear approach with existing methods from literature in terms of the approximation error and computation time. On average, we ﬁnd that our approach reduces the mean error of the power ﬂow deviations between the original power system and its reduced version, while achieving higher but reasonable computation times. Index Terms Network reduction, power transfer distribution factors (PTDFs) I. I NTRODUCTION Network reduction has become important for power system planning and operation, since a reduced version of a large network is required to cope with the computational burden in optimal planning and unit commitment (UC) applications. Although some methods make use of decomposition methods, optimal network expansion planning 1 , joint optimal genera- tion and network expansion planning 2 , 3 , 4 studies or UC problems 5 usually incorporate fairly small networks. Even decomposing the problem structure and running the problems on high performance computing clusters require a reduced version of the original network 6 . This is due to the fact that such optimization problems are inter-temporal coupled in the form of multi-period optimal power ﬂow (OPF) problems. Their computational complexity depends at least polynomially on the size of the network, the number of generators, and the time horizon 7 , 8 . Moreover, network reduction methods could also be applied in ﬂow-based power market clearing schemes 9 to reduce the amount of critical branches in the original network topology or to ﬁnd a concentrated network representation with respect to the bidding zones. The ﬁrst corner stone in network reduction was lain by Ward 10 with the introduction of circuit equivalents. Following- up works 11 , 12 still preserve the circuit equivalents with more enhanced adaptive equivalencing techniques. These approaches consider a partitioning of internal, external, and boundary bus groups. While the internal system remainsunchanged, the external and boundary buses are transformed to represent the electrical system. However, this might lead to ill-suited systems when one wants to retain the system e.g. with respect to geographical representation. The works 13 , 14 , 15 improve this drawback by projecting the reduced Power Transfer Distribution Factor (PTDF) matrix on the full original PTDF under a zonal bus assignment. It is noteworthy, that this conversion is a lossy approximation. While the reduced PTDF matrix of 15 depends on the operational setpoint, i.e. the PTDF matrix is power injection-dependent, the author in 14 derived a reduced PTDF matrix which is injection-independent. Since all presented applications vary generation and load setpoints, they require to be independent from the power injection point. Reduced power system representations relying only on PTDFs induce still a high computational complexity to multi- period OPF problems, since the PTDF matrix is dense. To allow for tractable multi-period problems it is crucial to have sparse network models. This property is fulﬁlled by the nodal admittance matrix containing the susceptances of the transmission network. The authors of 14 , 15 determine these quantities based on the reduced PTDF via an Eigen- value decomposition or a linear least-squares ﬁtting problem introducing additional power ﬂow errors between the original and reduced power ﬂow solution. In sum, this means that there is a clear need for sparse and injection-independent equivalents that introduce low power ﬂow errors between the original and the reduced system. Hence, the objective of this paper is to develop a new method that reduces this error and to compare this approach with existing methods from literature. The contribution of this paper is the development of a new method that is based on nonlinear optimization to determine the susceptances of the reduced PTDF matrix. We compare our method with existing methods over a range of different power injection scenarios and differently-sized grids in terms of the power ﬂow error and computation time. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec- tion II reviews existing PTDF-based network reduction meth- ods and describes our new susceptance determination method. Section III presents two case studies comparing the power ﬂow approximation errors and computation times illustratively for the IEEE14 grid and differently-sized grids. Section IV draws the conclusion.arXiv:1711.01079v2 cs.SY 15 Aug 2018 2 Calculation of reducedDetermination ofPTDF CalculationHx red bxHf Hx b PTDF susceptances Fig. 1. Process of ﬁnding the a sparse reduced network formulation. The ﬁrst two stages are needed to determine the susceptances, while the third one is necessary for the validation. II. M ETHOD In this section we ﬁrst review and compare existing PTDF- based network reduction techniques and derive the reduced PTDF matrices in a common framework. Second, we present our new method to determine the susceptances. In general, ﬁnding a sparse reduced network formulation comprises a two stage process and a following validation process (see Fig. 1). The ﬁrst stage calculates the reduced PTDF Hx redbased on the full PTDF Hffrom the original system. Considering a full network with nbbuses and nlbranches, the full PTDF matrix Hf2Rnl nb 1maps the bus injections pinj2Rnb 1 1to the line ﬂows pf2Rnl 1as follows pf BbrBbus 1 z : Hfpinj; (1) where Bbr2Rnl nb 1is the slack bus adjusted branch susceptance matrix and Bbus2Rnb 1 nb 1is the slack bus adjusted nodal susceptance matrix. The entries corresponding to the slack bus are deleted, in order to avoid that the matrix inverse gets singular, since the full version
__label__energy	arXiv:0903.0195v3 physics.soc-ph 2 Jul 2009Robustness of Trans-European Gas Networks Rui Carvalho,1, Lubos Buzna,2, 3, Flavio Bono,4, Eugenio Guti errez,4Wolfram Just,1and David Arrowsmith1 1School of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of L ondon, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS, U.K. 2ETH Zurich, UNO C 14, Universit atstrasse 41, 8092 Zurich, S witzerland 3University of Zilina, Univerzitna 8215 5, 01026 Zilina, Sl ovakia 4European Laboratory for Structural Assessment, Joint Rese arch Centre, Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen (IP SC), Via. E. Fermi, 1 TP 480, Ispra 21027 (VA), Italy Here we uncover the load and fault-tolerant backbones of the trans-European gas pipeline network. Combining topological data with information on inter-coun try ﬂows, we estimate the global load of the network and its tolerance to failures. To do this, we ap ply two complementary methods generalized from the betweenness centrality and the maximu m ﬂow. We ﬁnd that the gas pipeline network has grown to satisfy a dual-purpose: on one hand, the major pipelines are crossed by a large number of shortest paths thereby increasing the eﬃcie ncy of the network; on the other hand, a non-operational pipeline causes only a minimal impact on n etwork capacity, implying that the network is error-tolerant. These ﬁndings suggest that the t rans-European gas pipeline network is robust, i.e., error tolerant to failures of high load links. PACS numbers: 05.10.-a, 89.75.-k, 89.75.Fb I. INTRODUCTION The world is going through a period when research in energy is overarching 1, 2 . Oil and gas prices are volatile because of geopolitical and ﬁnancial crises. The rate of world-wide energy consumption has been acceler- ating, while gas resources are dwindling fast. Concerns about national supply and security of energy are on top of the political agenda, and global climate changes are now believed to be caused by the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere 1 . Although physicists have recently made substantial progress in the understanding of electrical power-grids 3 , 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 , surprisingly little attention has been paid to the structure of gas pipeline networks. Yet, nat- ural gas is often the energy of choice for home heating and it is increasingly being used instead of oil for trans- portation 2 , 11 . Although renewable energy sources oﬀer the best cuts in overall CO2emissions, the gener- ation of electricity from natural gas instead of coal can signiﬁcantly reduce the release of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. As the demand for natural gas rises in Eu- rope, it becomes more important to gain insights into the global transportation properties of the European gas network. Unlike electricity, with virtually instantaneou s transmission, the time taken for natural gas to cross Eu- rope is measured in days. This implies that the coor- dination among transport operators is less critical than for power grids. Therefore, commercial interests of com- peting operators often lead to incomplete or incorrect network information, even at the topological level. Until Electronic address: rui maths.qmul.ac.uk Electronic address: lbuzna ethz.ch Electronic address: ﬂavio.bono jrc.itnow, modelling has typically been made in small systems by the respective operators, who have detailed knowl- edge of their own infrastructures. Nevertheless, Ukraine alone transits approximately 80 of Russian gas exports to Europe 12 , suggesting the presence of a strong trans- portation backbone crossing several European countries. Historically, critical infrastructure networks have evolved under the pressure to minimize local rather than global failures 13 . However, little is known on how this local optimization impacts network robustness and secu- rity of supply on a global scale. The failure of a few important links may cause major disruption to supply in the network, not because these links connect to degree hubs, but because they are part of major transportation routes that are critical to the operation of the whole net- work. Here we adopt the view that a robust infrastructure network is one which has evolved to be error tolerant to failures of high load links. Our method is slightly dif- ferent from previous work on real world critical infras- tructure networks with percolation theory 6, 10, 14, 15 , which assume the simultaneous loss of many unrelated network components. The absence of historical records on the simultaneous failure of a signiﬁcant percentage of components in natural gas networks implies that the methods of percolation theory are of little practical rele- vance in our case. Hence, our approach to the challenge of characterising the robustness of global transport on the European gas network was to characterise the hot transportation backbone which emerges when measuring network load and error tolerance. II. TRANS-EUROPEAN GAS NETWORKS We have extracted the European gas pipeline network from the Platts Natural Gas geospatial data 18 . The data set cover all European countries (including non EU 2 FIG. 1: (Colour online) European gas pipeline network. We sh ow the transmission network blue (dark gray) pipelines ov erlaid with the distribution network brown (light gray) pipeline s . Link thickness is proportional to the pipeline diameter . We projected the data with the Lambert azimuthal equal area pro jection 16 . Background colours identify EU member states . TABLE I: Basic network statistics for the transmission and complete European gas pipeline networks. The complete net- work is the union of the transmission and distribution net- works. Statistics Gas network Gas network (transmission) (complete network) Number of nodes 2207 24010 Number of edges 2696 25554 Total length km 119961 436289 countries such as Norway and Switzerland), North Africa (main pipelines from Morocco and Tunisia), Eastern Eu- rope (Belarus, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Turkey) and Western Russia (see Fig. 1). Similarly to electrical power grids, gas pipeline net- works have two main layers: transmission and distribu- tion. The transmission network transports natural gas over long distances (typically across diﬀerent countries) ,whereas pipelines at the distribution level cover urban areas and deliver gas directly to end consumers. We ex- tracted the gas pipeline transmission network from the complete natural gas network, as
__label__energy	Toward Value-oriented Renewable Energy Forecasting: An Iterative Learning Approach Yufan Zhang, Mengshuo Jia, Honglin Wen Member, IEEE, Yuexin Bian, Yuanyuan Shi Member, IEEE. Abstract Energy forecasting is an essential task in power system operations. Operators usually issue forecasts and use them to schedule energy dispatch in advance. However, forecasting models are typically developed in a way that overlooks the decision value of forecasts. To bridge the gap, we design a value-oriented point forecasting approach for sequential energy dispatch problems with renewable energy sources. At the training phase, we align the training objective with the decision value, i.e., minimizing the overall operating cost. The forecasting model parameter estimation is formulated as a bilevel program. Under mild assumptions, we convert the upper-level objective into an equivalent form using the dual solutions obtained from the lower- level operation problems. In addition, a novel iterative solution strategy is proposed for the newly formulated bilevel program. Under such an iterative scheme, we show that the upper-level objective is locally linear with respect to the forecasting model output and can act as the loss function. Numerical experiments demonstrate that, compared to commonly used forecasts predict- ing expected realization, forecasts obtained by the proposed ap- proach result in lower operating costs. Meanwhile, the proposed approach achieves performance comparable to that of two-stage stochastic programs, but is more computationally efficient. Keywords: Renewable energy forecasting, Decision-focused learning, Energy dispatch, Sequential operation I. I NTRODUCTION With the ongoing transition towards net zero emissions in the energy sector, the penetration of renewable energy sources (RESs) has surged over recent decades. Due to inherent uncertainty, RESs cannot be scheduled at will, which has therefore motivated research on renewable energy forecasting to communicate information to the operation of power systems in advance 1 . Typically, forecasts are communicated in the form of point forecasts 2 , prediction intervals 3 , and probability distributions 4 , 5 , which offer a snapshot or a whole picture of the predictive distribution of renewable generation. Today, the forecasting community is increasingly relying on data-driven approaches, which estimate parameters of forecasting models based on historical data and some loss functions that measure the quality of forecasts in these data; see the comprehensive review by 6 . Usually, forecasts serve as the input to the downstream operational problems and therefore influence decisions. The resulting decision value of the downstream operational prob- lem can also be regarded as the value of forecasts, as suggested by 7 . Several previous works have shown that forecasts with Yufan Zhang, Yuexin Bian, and Yuanyuan Shi are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego. Their work are partially supported by the CA Climate Action, Resilience, and Environmental Sustainability (CARES) grant from UC San Diego. Mengshuo Jia is with the Power Systems Laboratory, ETH Z urich, 8092 Z urich, Switzer- land (jia eeh.ee.ethz.ch). Honglin Wen is with the Department of Electri- cal Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Co-corresponding authors: Honglin Wen (linlin00 sjtu.edu.cn) and Yuanyuan Shi (yyshi ucsd.edu).higher statistical accuracy may not necessarily lead to desir- able value in the operational problems 8 13 . Therefore, value-oriented forecasting has been advocated 14 , 15 , which aims at developing forecasting products that lead to higher value in subsequent decision-making, instead of better statistical accuracy. However, training forecasting models to achieve higher operating value presents significant challenges. Different lines of research in the literature address this issue in various ways; see an up-to-date review 16 . The first strand derives the gradient of optimal decision solutions w.r.t. the forecast for training forecasting models via gradient descent 17 , 18 , which involves a large-size matrix inverse and results in a computational burden. For operational problems where such a gradient is discontinuous or even vanishes everywhere, such as linear programs where coefficients in the objective function need to be estimated, this approach is not suitable. This motivates the second thread, which designs loss functions for training. Smart Predict, then Optimize (SPO) loss 15 is one of the pioneering works in this area, which relies on a hand-crafted regret loss function. To automate the process of designing loss functions, several studies propose learning the loss function from the data 13 , 19 . In general, value-oriented forecasting approaches can com- municate information that aligns with the operational value. Most power system operational problems are organized se- quentially 20 , which includes two deterministic problems made at different times, namely in the day-ahead and real- time stages (both referring to the time at which decisions are made relative to the delivery of energy). At the day- ahead stage, a single RES forecast is used as input to the operational problem to settle the quantity of energy to be dispatched the next day. The real-time stage occurs close to the actual delivery of electricity, following the realization of RES. During this stage, corrective decisions are made by solving an operational problem to balance any deviations from the initial schedules. In this setting, the decision value is commonly defined as minimizing the overall operating cost or maximizing the overall welfare profit at both stages. One of the most successful applications of aligning the forecasting model with such decision value definition is to settle the offering strategy of wind power producers, where the objective is to maximize the expected overall operating profit (by anticipating the balancing cost at the real-time stage). Refs 1 , 21 , 22 demonstrated that the wind power offering aligns with the Newsvendor problem 23 , and the optimal offering strategy is to predict the quantile. The link between the decision value, i.e., the overall profit, and the forecast can be explicitly formulated, and the pinball loss can be used as a surrogate loss function to develop forecasting models.arXiv:2309.00803v3 eess.SY 16 Dec 2024 For complex operational problems involving several de- cision variables and constraints, a closed-form relationship between the decision value, such as total operating cost, and the forecasts may not be explicit. One possible solution is to optimize the forecasting
__label__energy	The Norwegian-Polish CCS Network: A Case Study in Bilateral Collaboration for European Climate Action Mohammad Nooraiepour1 , Pawel Gladysz2, and Eirik Melaaen3 1Department of Geosciences, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1047 Blindern, 0316, Oslo, Norway. 2Faculty of Energy and Fuels, AGH University of Krakow, Mickiewicza 30 Av., 30-059 Krakow, Poland. 2Norwegian Energy Partners (NORWEP), Hoffsveien 23, 0275 Oslo, Norway. Corresponding author: mohammad.nooraiepour geo.uio.no January 22, 2025 Abstract In the face of escalating climate change, achieving significant reductions in greenhouse gas emis- sions from hard-to-abate industrial sectors is imperative. Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) repre- sentsanessentialtechnologicaladvancementtoachievesustainabledecarbonization. Thismanuscript reports on the bilateral CCS network between Norway and Poland, designed and implemented to leverage their capabilities to expedite technology deployment via mutual cooperation and accelerate CCS initiatives targeted to member states challenges across Europe, aiming for a meaningful con- tribution to climate goals. Norway is renowned for its operational acumen demonstrated through landmark projects like Sleipner and Snøhvit, and its forward-looking initiatives, such as the open- source cross-border Northern Lights project, offer advanced infrastructure and expertise. Conversely, Poland, characterized by its coal-dependent economy and the challenge of decarbonizing extensive industrial emissions, presents a significant geological CO 2storage potential, estimated at over 15.5 gigatonnes. This study delves into the potential synergies derived from collaborative endeavors in academiceducation, research anddevelopment, industrial implementation, regulatorycoherence, and public engagement. By underscoring the reciprocal benefits of such partnership, the study under- scores the indispensable role of bilateral cooperation in harnessing CCS s capabilities to meet the EU s ambitious climate objectives, paving the way toward a sustainable and low-carbon future. Ad- ditionally, it outlines a scalable model for fostering and supporting broader bilateral and multi-lateral collaborations, emphasizing the pivotal role of interconnected networks in shaping effective global climate action strategies. Introduction The intensifying impacts of climate change, driven by anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, necessi- tate urgent and decisive global action. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report emphatically emphasizes the need for immediate and substantial emissions reductions across all sectors to meet the target of limiting global warming to well below 2 C, with aspirations to confine it to 1.5 C above pre-industrial levels 1 . Carbon dioxide (CO 2), as the most prevalent long- lived greenhouse gas, is a primary driver of this challenge, necessitating targeted mitigation strategies 2 . Within this context, Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) emerges as a critical technological intervention for mitigating CO 2emissions, particularly from energy-intensive and hard-to-abate industrial sectors 3, 1 . These sectors include power generation (notably coal and gas-fired plants), cement production 1arXiv:2501.05539v3 physics.soc-ph 19 Jan 2025 (approximately 8 of global CO 2emissions), steel manufacturing (7-9 of global emissions), as well as refineries and chemical production facilities 3, 4 . CCS encompasses a suite of complementary technologies that capture CO 2emissions at their source, preventing their release into the atmosphere. Once captured, the CO 2is purified, compressed, and transported via pipelines, ships, or other means to suitable geological formations for permanent stor- age. These formations typically include primarily deep saline aquifers and then depleted oil and gas reservoirs suitable for long-term containment and where CO 2can effectively be sequestered 5 . CCS offers an actionable pathway for decarbonizing existing industrial facilities to extend their operational lifespan while significantly reducing their emissions and environmental footprint. Furthermore, CCS is indispensable in producing low-carbon hydrogen (blue hydrogen) through steam methane reforming of natural gas, whereby the generated CO 2is captured and stored 6, 7 . This low-carbon hydrogen serves a myriad of applications, including transportation, heating, and industrial processes, underpinning a broader transition to a sustainable energy economy. The European Union (EU) has articulated ambitious climate targets, aiming for climate neutrality by 2050 as part of the European Green Deal 8 . Realizing this visionary goal necessitates a profound transformation of the energy system and the widespread adoption of low-carbon technologies, with the capture-sequestrationcomponentpoisedtoplayapivotalrole 9 . Recognizingthis,theEUhasintegrated CCS into its climate and energy policies, including instruments such as the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS), which offers a market-based mechanism for carbon pricing, theoretically incentivizing CCS adoption 10, 11 . Additionally, the EU Innovation Fund supports deploying cutting-edge low- carbon technologies, with CCS as a focal area 12, 13 . Despite this strategic positioning, the large-scale deploymentofCCSwithinEuroperemainsburdenedbychallenges,includinghighcapitalcostsassociated with capture technologies, transport infrastructures, public acceptance concerns over perceived risks and long-termstoragesafety, aswellastheneedforrobust, harmonizedregulatoryframeworksacrossmember states 9, 14 . Norway, distinguished as a global leader in CCS, has demonstrated the technical viability and long- term safety of geological CO 2storage through pioneering projects 15, 16 . The Sleipner project, operated by Equinor since 1996, has successfully stored over 20 million tonnes of CO 2in the Utsira Formation, a deep saline aquifer beneath the North Sea 5, 16 . This project not only demonstrated the large- scale feasibility of geological storage but also yielded invaluable scientific data on CO 2migration and containment 17 . Similarly, the Snøhvit project, operational since 2008, captures CO 2from natural gas processing at the Melkøya LNG plant, subsequently injecting it into a subsea reservoir near the Snøhvit gas field in the Barents Sea, sequestering approximately 0.7 million tonnes of CO 2annually 18, 5 . These initiatives have provided significant operational experience, scientific insights, and contributed to establishing public confidence. The Northern Lights LongShip project further advances the CCS frontier by developing a pioneering open-access CO 2transport and storage infrastructure designed to receiveCO 2fromindustrialemittersacrossEurope 16, 19 . Withanexpectedinitialinjectioncapacityof 1.5 million tonnes annually, and potential expansion to over 5 million tonnes, Northern Lights symbolizes the scaling potential of CCS in Europe. Norway s comprehensive regulatory framework, aligned with the EUCCSDirectiveandsupplementedbynationallegislation, providesastableandpredictableinvestment landscape for CCS projects 20, 21 . In contrast, Poland faces the complex challenge of transitioning from a heavily coal-dependent energy infrastructure. Coal currently generates a significant fraction of Poland s electricity (approximately 60 in 2023 as shown in Fig. 1), underpinning various industrial processes and resulting in substantial CO 2emissions 22, 23 . The Bełchatów Power Station, Europe s largest lignite-fired power plant with a capacity exceeding 5 GW, epitomizes
__label__energy	arXiv:2310.15468v1 cs.LG 24 Oct 2023Empowering Distributed Solutions in Renewable Energy Systems and Grid Optimization Mohammad Mohammadi, Ali Mohammadi September 2023 1 Abstract This study delves into the shift from centralized to decentralized ap proaches in the electricity industry, with a particular focus on how machine learn ing (ML) advancements play a crucial role in empowering renewable energy so urces and improving grid management. ML models have become increasingly impor tant in predicting renewable energy generation and consumption, utilizing various techniques like artiﬁcial neural networks, support vector machin es, and decision trees. Furthermore, data preprocessingmethods, such as dat a splitting, normal- ization, decomposition, and discretization, are employed to enhanc e prediction accuracy. The incorporation of big data and ML into smart grids oﬀers several ad- vantages, including heightened energy eﬃciency, more eﬀective re sponses to demand, and better integration of renewable energy sources. Ne vertheless, chal- lenges like handling large data volumes, ensuring cybersecurity, and obtaining specialized expertise must be addressed. The research investigat es various ML applications within the realms of solar energy, wind energy, and elect ric dis- tribution and storage, illustrating their potential to optimize energ y systems. To sum up, this research demonstrates the evolving landscape of t he electricity sector as it shifts from centralized to decentralized solutions thro ugh the appli- cation of ML innovations and distributed decision-making, ultimately s haping a more eﬃcient and sustainable energy future. 2 Introduction Due to the rapid advancement of global industrialization, it is acknow ledged that excessive use of fossil fuels will not just speed up the depletio n of these resources but will also harm the environment. These consequence s will lead to elevated health risks and the looming threat of worldwide climate chan ge 1 . Traditional fossil fuel-based energy sources are under pressur e due to uncer- tainty about their role in global warming 2 . Alongside fossil fuels and n uclear 1 power, renewable energy is currently the fastest-growing energ y sector. The in- creasing focus on recent studies can be attributed to the growing popularity of sustainable and environmentally friendly renewable energy sources such as solar power, wind energy, hydroelectric power, biomass, waves, tides, and geother- mal energy due to their minimal environmental impact. A primary cha llenge for renewable energy in the near future is energy supply. This refe rs to the integration of renewable energy resources into existing or future energy supply frameworks 3 . Consequently, focus is shifting to alternative ener gy sources that need to substantially increase their contributions to global en ergy produc- tion in the upcoming years, as societies move away from oil and coal. C lean and renewable energies play a pivotal role here, but their implementation presents unique challenges that necessitate the development of new techno logies 2 . The growing energy demand has made the adoption of renewable sou rces inevitable. Overtime, manypowercompanieshaveestablishedrenew ableenergy facilities worldwide to oﬀer economical and environmentally friendly en ergy 4 . Renewable sources like wind and solar power come with advantages su ch as lower delivery costs and reduced emissions. However, traditional g rid energy storage designs are becoming less practical. Occasional large-sca le blackouts have emphasized the need for an enhanced decision-making proces s that relies on timely and precise data regarding dynamic events, operating con ditions, and sudden power changes 5 . Rifkin 6 has deﬁned the energy internet as an innovative energy ut ilization system that merges renewable energy sources, decentralized po wer stations, hy- drogenenergy, storagetechnologies, and electric vehicles with In ternet technolo- gies. The author has outlined four attributes of the energy intern et: reliance on renewable energy, support for access to large-scale generation and storage sys- tems, facilitation of energy sharing, and promotion of electric tran sportation. In contrast to fossil fuel-based power plants, managing renewab le energy neces- sitates more advanced control of power, equilibrium, and product ion capacity, attainable through smart grids 7 . These grids combine traditional p ower net- workswith advancedInformationTechnology(IT)andcommunicat ionnetworks todistribute electricitywith greatereﬃciencyandreliability, while also reducing costs and environmental impacts 8 . The shift of the electricity grid towards the smart grid is facilitated b y the Internet of Things (IoT), an interconnected network of sensing and actuating devices that enables seamless sharing of information across platfo rms through a uniﬁed framework. This framework creates a cohesive operating view to sup- port innovative applications. This is achieved through pervasive and continuous sensing, data analysis, and information representation, with cloud computing serving as the overarching infrastructure. Each of these interc onnected devices possesses its own embedded computing system, enabling identiﬁcat ion and in- teraction with other devices, and often necessitates the use of a dvanced data analysis and machine learning techniques 6 . These technologies bring about various advantages, including enha nced en- ergy eﬃciency, improved demand response, and better integratio n of renewable energy sources. However, it s important to acknowledge potentia l drawbacks, 2 such as the vulnerability to cyber-attacks and the complexity inher ent in ma- chine learning algorithms. Highlighting the need to address security c oncerns within the smart grid, it outlines potential security threats and cor responding countermeasures. The applications of IoT extend across diﬀerent layers of the smart grid. In the Generation layer, it facilitates monitoring energy generation , control- ling units, tracking gas emissions and pollution, predicting power cons umption, and managing distributed power plants and microgrids. In the Trans mission layer, it enables monitoring and control of transmission lines and sub stations, along with the production management of transmission towers. The Distribu- tionlayerbeneﬁts fromIoTbyautomatingdistributionprocesses, managingand safeguarding equipment, and handling faults. At the Consumption la yer, IoT is applied to smart homes and appliances, intelligent charging and discha rging of electric vehicles 9 , power load control, and multi-network manageme nt 10 . This evolving landscape requires new strategies for energy produc tion man- agement, forecasting, and prediction. A signiﬁcant challenge lies in t he fact that renewable energies are not entirely controllable, as their gene ration heavily depends on environmental
__label__energy	IRON AS A SUSTAINABLE CHEMICAL CARRIER OF RENEWABLE ENERGY: ANALYSIS OF OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES FOR RETROFITTING COAL-FIRED POWER PLANTS PAULO DEBIAGI1; , RODOLFO CAVALIERE DA ROCHA1, ARNE SCHOLTISSEK1, JOHANNES JANICKA2, CHRISTIAN HASSE1 1Technical University of Darmstadt, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Simulation of reactive Thermo-Fluid Systems, Otto-Berndt-Str. 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany 2Technical University of Darmstadt, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Energy and Power Plant Technology, Otto-Berndt-Stra e 3, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany Abstract. As a result of the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26), several countries committed to phasing down coal electricity as soon as possible, deactivating hundreds of power plants in the near future. CO 2-free electricity can be generated in these plants by retro tting them for iron combustion. Iron oxides produced during the process can be collected and reduced back to metallic iron using H 2, in a circular process where it becomes an energy carrier. Using clean energy in the recycling process enables storage and distribution of excess generated in periods of abundance. This concept uses and scales up existing dry metal cycle technologies, which are the focus of extensive research worldwide. Retro tting is evaluated here to determine feasibility of adding these material requirements to markets, in the context of current plans for decarbonization of steel industry, and policies on hydrogen and renewable electricity. Results indicate that not only for a single power plant, but also on larger scales, the retro tting plan is viable, promoting and supporting advancements in sustainable electricity, steel industry and hydrogen production, con- verging necessary technological and construction e orts. The maturation and rst commercial-scale application of iron combustion technology by 2030, together with developing necessary reduction infrastructure over the next decades, would pave the way for large-scale retro tting and support the phasing out of coal in many regions. The proposed plan represents a feasible solution that takes advantage of existing assets, creates a long-lasting legacy for the industry and establishes circular energy economies that increase local energy security. Keywords: Iron Combustion; Energy Carrier; Retro tting; Green Energy; Hydrogen; Sustain- ability; Carbon-free Combustion E-mail address :debiagi stfs.tu-darmstadt.de . 1arXiv:2205.11944v1 physics.soc-ph 24 May 2022 1.Introduction In the Paris Agreement, countries committed to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), limiting global warming, preferably to 1.5 C. Investigations by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) forecast that the average global temperature would reach 1.4 4.4 C above pre-industrial times by 2100 1 . During the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26), the parties agreed to phase down unabated coal usage 2 , which was the source of about 30 of total global CO2emissions in 2020 3, 4 . Coal combustion is also the source of pollutants such as heavy metals, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides (NO x) 5 and sulfur oxides (SOx) 6 . The global electricity sector relied on coal for 35.1 (9.4 PWh) of the output in 2020 4 , a decrease compared with the historical 2018 peak (10.1 PWh), partly because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Percentages vary locally, at 60.75 in China 7 , 23.66 in Germany and 13.22 in EU-27 8 . Currently (2021), 2445 coal power stations are operating around the world, totalling 2.07 TW of capacity 9 . Several European countries have established plans to phase out coal by 2030, as reported in Fig. 1, clearly showing that the treansition is easier for all these countries, which require less than 15 of coal in their electricity mix. Germany previously announced plans to phase out coal by 2038 10 , and the recently formed government proposes bringing this forward to 2030 11 . Poland is a special case in the EU, as it still relies strongly on coal (69.8 ) 8 , making this transition very challenging. Further resistance to phasing coal out comes from India and China, which are large consumers of electricity in general, and are particularly reliant on coal 7 . 0153045607590Relative share of coal in the electricitymix China (4631.0)Czech Republic (32.1)Bulgaria (13.5)Poland (109.9)Slovenia (4.4)Germany (134.2)USA (774.0)Romania (9.4)Greece (7.4)Denmark (4.2)Hungary (3.6)Croatia (1.2)Netherlands (8.9)Slovakia (2.0) Italy (15.0)Finland (3.4)Spain (6.3)Ireland (0.7) India (947.0)UK (5.3)France (4.3) Coal phase-out plans:Phased-out By 2030After 2030W o announced plansAbsolute share TWh Fig. 1. Share of coal in electricity mix and plans for phasing out coal in Europe. Left: Current plans for phasing out coal in selected European countries. Right: Absolute TWh and relative share of coal in the electricity mix of selected European countries (2020) 7, 8 , clearly indicating that countries that are less reliant on coal are committing to phase out coal sooner. The share in China, India and the USA is also shown. 10, 12 . Compared to other fossil fuels, in 2020 coal is still the largest source of global energy-related CO2emissions (44.0 ), followed by oil and its derivates (33.7 ), and natural gas (21.6 ). Many countries are investing in power generation from natural gas to support the phasing out of coal, as both pollutants and CO2emissions are signi cantly lower. However, the current crisis in Ukraine 2 is expected to cause rapid policy changes worldwide, especially in Europe, where several sectors are pressuring policy-makers to reduce and eventually cease energy imports from Russia. Sustainable processes for converting renewable energy sources need to be developed 13 and this will depend on multiple solutions in the future, including e-fuels 14, 15 , biofuels 16, 17 and carbon capture 18, 19 . Renewable energy sources (e.g., wind, sun, geothermal, biomass) are generally proposed as substitutes for fossil fuels for electricity generation. In recent years, governments worldwide have been implementing policies to enable a fast transition of the electricity mix, scaling up the capacity. The new German coalition presented plans to ramp up the clean energy output from 251 TWh in 2020 20 to as much as 600 TWh by 2030 (80 of the power mix), later increasing it to 100 of the total output by 2045, when the country is expected to become carbon neutral 11 . Once deactivated, existing infrastructure for fossil fuels can remain as a
__label__energy	Federated Fog Computing for Remote Industry 4.0 Applications Razin Farhan Hussain A Dissertation presented to the Graduate Faculty in Partial Ful llment of the Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Philosophy University of Louisiana at Lafayette Fall 2022 APPROVED: Mohsen Amini Salehi, Chair The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Sheng Chen The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Xu Yuan The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Li Chen The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Mary Farmer-Kaiser Dean of the Graduate SchoolarXiv:2301.00484v1 cs.DC 1 Jan 2023 Razin Farhan Hussain 2022 All Rights Reserved Abstract Industry 4.0 operates based on IoT devices, sensors, and actuators, transforming the use of computing resources and software solutions in diverse sectors. Various Industry 4.0 latency-sensitive applications function based on machine learning and utilize the generated sensor data for automation and other industrial activities. Sending sensor data to cloud systems is time consuming and detrimental to the latency constraints of the applications. In this circumstance, fog computing can be used to support latency-sensitive applications. Executing these applications across heterogeneous fog systems demonstrates stochastic execution time behaviour that a ects the task completion time. Hence, we investigate and model various Industry 4.0 ML-based applications stochastic executions and introduce real-world execution time traces of Industry 4.0 applications. Remote o shore industries like oil and gas are prone to disasters requiring the coordination of various latency-sensitive activities. Accordingly, their procured fog computing resources can get oversubscribed due to the surge in the computing demands during a disaster. Hence, in this dissertation, we propose federating nearby fog computing systems and forming a fog federation to make remote Industry 4.0 sites resilient against the surge in computing demands. We propose a statistical resource allocation method across fog federation for latency-sensitive tasks. Many of the modern Industry 4.0 applications operate based on a work ow of micro-services that are used alone within an industrial site. As such, industry 4.0 solutions need to be aware of applications architecture, particularly monolithic vs. iii micro-service. Therefore, we propose a probability-based resource allocation method that can partition micro-service work ows across fog federation to meet their latency constraints. Another concern in Industry 4.0 is the data privacy of the federated fog. As such, we propose a solution based on federated learning to train industrial ML applications across federated fog systems without compromising the data con dentiality. iv To my wife, Rezwana Mahjabeen, my daughter, Ruzainah Shehzeen Hussain, my parents, H.K.M. Altaf Hussain and Fariha Akhter, my Sister, Sabrina Shahreen Sarna, my brother, Shoumin Rafsun Hussain and to all my friends and loved ones. Acknowledgments I sincerely thank my supervisor, Dr. Mohsen Amini Salehi, for his constant encouragement and passion for computer science and, especially, for his guidance, support, and cooperation. Thanks to my dissertation committee, Dr. Xu Yuan, Dr. Li Chen, and Dr. Sheng Chen. Thanks to Sm Zobaed, Ali Mokhtari, Davood Ghatreh Samani, and Chavit Denninart for their assistance in the work of this dissertation. Finally, thanks go to the Center for Advanced Computer Studies and the Graduate School at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette for their support and guidance. vi Table of Contents Abstract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii Dedication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vi List of Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xii List of Figures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xiv Chapter 1: Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1.1 Research Problem and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1.2 Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 1.3 Dissertation Organisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Chapter 2: Background and Literature Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 2.1 Computing as a Prominent Aspect of Industry 4.0 . . . . . . . . . . 13 2.2 Distributed Computing Systems in Industry
__label__energy	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. XX, NO. XX, AUGUST 20XX 1 Leveraging the Potential of Novel Data in Power Line Communication of Electricity Grids Christoph Balada, Sheraz Ahmed, Andreas Dengel, Max Bondorf and Markus Zdrallek Abstract Electricity grids have become an essential part of daily life, even if they are often not noticed in everyday life. We usually only become particularly aware of this dependence by the time the electricity grid is no longer available. However, significant changes, such as the transition to renewable energy (photovoltaic, wind turbines, etc.) and an increasing number of energy consumers with complex load profiles (electric vehicles, home battery systems, etc.), pose new challenges for the elec- tricity grid. At the same time, these challenges are usually too complex to be solved with traditional approaches. In this gap, where traditional approaches are reaching their limits, Machine Learning has become a popular tool to bridge this shortcoming through data-driven approaches. Machine learning (ML) is a source of untapped potential for a variety of different challenges that the electricity grid will face in the future if we had enough data. To enable novel ML implementations is we propose FiN- 2 dataset, the first large-scale real-world broadband powerline communications (PLC) dataset. Encouraged by the pioneering efforts that went into compiling the FiN-1 dataset, we address a limitation of FiN-1, namely the small size and spatial coverage of the data. FiN-2 was collected during real practical use in a part of the German low-voltage grid that supplies energy to over 4.4 million people and shows well over 13 billion data points collected by more than 5100 sensors. In addition, we present different use cases in asset management, grid state visualization, forecasting, predictive maintenance, and novelty detection to highlight the benefits of these types of data. For these applications, we particularly highlight the use of novel machine learning architectures to extract rich information from real-world data that cannot be captured using traditional approaches. By publishing the first large-scale real-world dataset, we also aim to shed light on the previously largely unrecognized potential of PLC data and emphasize machine-learning-based research in low-voltage distribution networks by presenting a variety of different use cases. Index Terms Electricity Grid, Power Distribution Systems, Big Data, Machine Learning, Power Line Communication I. I NTRODUCTION Electricity grids play an indispensable role in providing the basic infrastructure for our modern lives. At the same time, electricity grids are currently facing one of the most significant changes since their invention. On the one hand, we have the transition to renewable energies to combat climate change, and on the other hand, there s a rise in digitisation and automation 1 , 2 efforts. While the need to change the way energy is generated, transmitted and distributed is obvious from a climate change perspective, the implicit impacts and C. Balada, S. Ahmed and A. Dengel are with the German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Kaiserslautern, Germany; christoph.balada, sheraz.ahmed, andreas.dengel dfki.de M. Bondorf and M. Zdrallek are with University of Wuppertal, Wuppertal, Germany; bondorf, zdrallek uni-wuppertal.deopportunities of the transition to a smart grid are far more subtle. In this context, Power Line Communication (PLC) has proven to be a reliable foundation for providing a commu- nication infrastructure capable of interconnecting smart grid components such as smart meters 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 . However, in addition to providing a communication infrastructure, PLC can do even more for future smart grid systems 2 , 6 , 7 . PLC nodes form a distributed measurement network that is able to provide near real-time insights into large parts of the network, and especially into the low-voltage part of the grid. Particularly for low-voltage grids (lv grid), this new possibility of monitoring represents a breakthrough 2 . However, the actual value of this data is still largely unrecognized. While these challenges posed by the transition to a smart grid are typically too complex to be solved by traditional ap- proaches, Machine Learning (ML) has become a popular tool to bridge this shortcoming through data-driven approaches. Machine Learning is a source of untapped potential for a variety of different challenges that the electricity grid will face in the future if we had enough data. Inspired by the need for more data to implement such novel ML approaches and encouraged by the pioneering efforts that went into compiling the FiN-1 dataset, we present the FiN-2 dataset, which reshapes the standards for publicly available data in this area. In this paper, we showcase the novel FiN-2 dataset and highlight the benefits of data-driven approaches based on data from FiN-1 and FiN-2 dataset. To enable research in these application areas, we are releasing the FiN-2 dataset, addressing the immense data hunger of modern ML that paves the way to use cases ranging from asset management, grid state visualization, forecasting, predictive maintenance to novelty detection. To underline these use cases, we show several practical examples from different application areas and emphasize the advantages for network operators and other stakeholders. Inspired by that, we address a limitation of FiN1, namely the low spatial extent and number of sensors and measurements in the PLC network. FiN-2 dataset was collected during real practical use in a part of the German lv grid that supplies energy to over 4.4 million people and shows more than 13 billion data points collected by more than 5100 sensors. We pay particular attention to the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) measurements between the PLC nodes, and to the voltage measurements at the nodes. Our main contribution is two-fold: first, we present the first large-scale real-world dataset of PLC- based data, paving the way towards more practical smart grid research based on real-world data. Secondly, we give a broadarXiv:2209.12693v3 cs.LG 8 Sep 2023 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. XX, NO. XX, AUGUST 20XX 2 Fig. 1. Different examples of SNR spectra. The left figures show an example of an SNR spectrum (top) with the corresponding tone map (bottom). The middle figures show an example of a recurring
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	1 Poly(ionic liquid)s: platform for CO 2 capture and catalysis Xianjing Zhou,1,2 Jens Weber,3 Jiayin Yuan 2 1 Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Department of Chemistry, 310018 Hangzhou, China 2 Stockholm University, Department of Materials and Environmenta l Chemistry (MMK), Svante Arrhenius väg 16C, 10691 Stockholm, Sweden (jiayin.yuan mmk.su.se) 3 Hochschule Zittau Görlitz (University of Applied Sciences), Th eodor-Körner-Allee 16, 02763 Zittau, Germany 2018. This manuscript version is made available under the CC- BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 Abstract Capture and conversion of CO 2 are of great importance for environment-friendly and sustainable development of human society. Poly(ionic liquid)s ( PILs) combine some unique properties of ILs with tha t of polymers and are versatil e materials for CO 2 utilization. In this contribution, we briefly outline innovativ e poly(ionic liquid)s emerged over the past few years, such as polytriazoliums, deep eutectic monomer (DEM) based PILs, and polyurethane PILs. Additionally, we discu ss their advantages and challenges as materials for Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS ), and the fixation of CO 2 into useful materials. Keywords Poly(ionic liquid); CO 2 capture; CO 2 catalysis; CO 2 utilization 1. Introduction Excessive emission of greenhouse gases, the main component of w hich is carbon dioxide (CO 2), has been considered as the major cause to global warming, oc ean acidification and expansion of deserts in the subtropics 1-4 . The International Energy A g e n c y ( I E A ) r e p o r t e d t h a t t h e g l o b a l a t m o s p h e r i c C O 2 concentration passed the historically high level, 400 ppm, in 2016 5 , around 40 highe r than that in the mid- 1800s and it is still in an average growth rate of 2 ppm year i n the last decades 6 . In this regard, global attention has cast on the development of ef ficient Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) techniques as well as fixation of CO 2 into useful materials 7-9 . Current well-developed CCS techniques are often classified into three categories, i.e. post-combustion capture, oxyfuel combustion, and pre-combustion capture. Chemical absorption of CO 2 by aqueous amine solutions is a conventional and well-develope d post-combustion capture technology but suffers from corrosion, volatility, toxicity, degradability and high energy consumption for regeneration 10- 12 . Alternatively, various highly porous adsorbents, which operate mainly via physical adsorption, have been studied over the past two decades for potential use in pre ssure temperature swing 2 adsorption processes (PTSA). Materials under discussion include micro meso-porous silica or zeolites 13,14 , metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) 15 -19 , covalent organic frameworks (COFs) 20,21 , carbon aceous materials 22,23 , and more 24,25 . Among them, the hybrid MOFs (up to 27 wt ) and zeolites (up to 18 wt ) exhibit exceptionally high CO 2 uptake around room temperature and atmospheric pressure. 26,27 A still very valuable review of dif ferent material clas ses for CO 2 capture by adsorption, also with respect to technical issues, was provided by Hedin and coworkers recently 28 . Material combina tions such as zeolite activated carbon have already been implemented into pilot-scale in real power plants. 29 Along this line, there is considerable interest in developing a lternative techniques. Since Blanchard et al. 30 firstly reported CO 2 capture by ionic liquids (ILs), ILs have attracted much attention in the field of gas capture and separa tion. ILs carry unique properties, such as negligible vapor pressure, low flammability , high thermal stabilities, excellent gas selectivity, and tunable properties, just to name a few, which make them multifunctional 31 . However, the high viscosity and the assoc iated relatively low CO 2 sorption desorption rates of ILs 32-34 hamper their applicati on in gas capture. Recent success in poly(ionic liquid)s (PILs), i.e. the polymeric product of ILs, promotes their usage in and beyond CO 2 sorption due to a variety of new features of PILs in comparison to ILs 8,35-38 . PILs are composed of coval ently linked IL species 31 , and carry features of macromolecules, thus elegantly comb ining some unique properties and functions of ILs with that of polymers ( e.g. easy processability and shape durability). Although suffering from a relatively poor capacity of CO 2 (generally 10 wt ) and a high cost in comparison to commercial CO 2 absorbents, the affinity of PILs towards CO 2 can be tailor-made through judicious choice of the IL groups a nd the polymer backbones, as well as the polymer structures 39-42 . T hus the PIL technology in CO 2 utilization encompasses not only CO 2 capture because of its scientific interest, but also the catalytic CO 2 activation, sensing, and conversion to value-added chemical feedstocks and high-end polymers. This contribution presents a brief overview of newly emerging PILs, and their CO 2 capture and catalysis from a general perspective. 2. Innovative Structures of PILs By selecting different cation and anion pairs, polymer backbone and side groups, physics and chemistry of PILs could be tailored 8 43 . A lar ge number of cations and anions in IL chemistry can be understood as a big library of bu ilding blocks to design polymers. Cations such as imidazolium, pyridinium, pyrrolidiniu m, ammonium, phosphonium, guanidinium and piperidinium, and anions categoriz ed into carboxylates, sulphonates, sulfonamide and inorganic type have been thoroughl y researched. Typical chemical structures of PILs have been summarized by previous re views 31 . However, the rich IL chemistry allows to produce constantly new PILs wit h the major discovery on polytriazoliums, deep eutectic monomer (DEM) based PILs, and polyurethane PILs (Fig. 1) . 3 Figure 1. Chemical structures of PILs new ly developed during the past 3 years. Polytriazoliums have been previously seldom studied and have no t been investigated in the form of PILs until very recently 44-49 . A triazolium u nit has two isomers, that
__label__energy	arXiv:2003.07062v2 eess.SY 18 Mar 20201 Variable Speed Hydropower Plant with Virtual Inertia Control for Provision of Fast Frequency Reserves Tor Inge Reigstad, Kjetil Uhlen Abstract In this paper, ﬁve virtual inertia control structures are implemented and tested on a variable speed hydropower (VSHP) plant. The results show that all ﬁve can deliver fast power reserves to maintain grid stability after disturbanc es after a disturbance. The VSHP is well suited for the purposed since its output power can be changed almost instantaneously by utili zing the rotational energy of the turbine and generator. This wil l cause the turbine rotational speed to deviate from its optimal val ue temporarily. Then the governor control will regain the turb ine rotational speed by controlling the guide vane opening and thereby the turbine ﬂow and mechanical power. With that, the VSHP output power can be changed permanently to contribute with primarily frequency reserves. Dynamic and eigenvalue analyses are performed to compare ﬁve different versions of the basic VSG and VSM control structures; VSG, power-frequency PID-controller with per ma- nent droop (VSG-PID), VSM, VSM with power-frequency PD- controller (VSM-PD), and VSM with power-frequency PID- controller and permanent droop (VSM-PID). They are evaluat ed by two main criteria; their ability to deliver instantaneou s power (inertia) to reduce the rate of change of frequency (ROCOF) a nd their contribution to frequency containment control (stea dy-state frequency droop response). Index Terms Virtual inertia, synthetic inertia, virtual syn- chronous generator, virtual synchronous machine, variabl e speed hydropower, hydropower, grid integration study. I. I NTRODUCTION THE increasing share of non-controllable renewable en- ergy enforces the introduction of new ﬂexible producers and consumers to ensure the balance of the grid. In the Nordic grid, large hydro and thermal power plants have up til now supplied inertia and frequency control. The introduction o f wind, solar and HVDC connection to Europa creates new production scenarios where the inertia in the grid is very lo w. This will compromise the frequency stability as the inverte r- based generation does not provide any response to frequency deviations unless virtual inertia control is implemented. The goal of the inertia control is to control the converters to in - crease the inertia in the grid. Different typologies are rev iewed in 1 and they are divided into three categories. The simple st type is the frequency-response based models where the power is controlled proportionally to the frequency deviation an d or the derivative of the frequency 2 . Other models emulate a synchronous machine by a machine model and are therefore referred to synchronous generator based models. They might T.I. Reigstad and K. Uhlen are with Department for Electric P ower Engi- neering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (N TNU), NO-7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: tor.inge.reigstad ntnu.no, kj etil.uhlen ntnu.no)contain models of inertia, damping and voltage 3 . The swin g- equation models are similar to the synchronous generator based models, however, they are based on a simpler power- frequency swing equation 4 . In this paper, Variable Speed Hydropower (VSHP) is inves- tigated to provide Fast Frequency Reserves (FFR) and Virtua l Inertia (VI) to the grid. These ancillary services can incre ase the frequency stability by responding to frequency deviati ons within1sand thereby contribute to balancing the grid, main- taining the power system security and thereby improving the grid stability. As the system inertia is reduced as the share of renewable energy increases, the utilization of VI may be essential for the green shift. The other main advantages of variable speed hydropower are increase efﬁciency at low production and the possibilit y to control the power in pumping modes while keeping the efﬁciency at an acceptable level 5 . Besides, the converte r technology of the VSHP can improve the speed of the voltage control and potentially increase the reactive power capabi l- ity. The drawbacks are the power losses of the converters, increased costs and the reduced reliability if bypassing th e converters is impossible. The limited short circuit curren t of the converters may also cause challenges for the generator a nd grid protection. VSHP plants are particularly suited for VI control since the rotational energy of the turbine and generator can be utiliz ed by allowing the rotational speed to deviate from its best operating point. Then the guide vane opening, water ﬂow and thereby the mechanical power can be controlled to regain the rotational speed of the turbine. Despite other sources of vi rtual inertia have not the same properties, implementation of VI i n VSHP is not investigated in the literature. Photovoltaic sy stems (PV) have very limited energy storage while the rotational speed of wind turbines 6 , 7 must be regained by reducing the power output, which will cause additional frequency dro p. Wind turbines are therefore best ﬁtted for frequency-power response-based control with temporary grid support 8 . In addition, virtual inertia from batteries 9 , capacitors 10 and HVDC 11 are investigated in literature. The power reserves are divided into four levels in 7 , 12 , each of them necessary for maintaining the balance between power generation and power consumption and thereby ensur- ing that the frequency is kept within the limits given by the g rid codes. The fastest power reserves are the instantaneous pow er reserves, also called inertia. They generated by the physic al stabilizing effect of all the grid-connected synchronous m a- 2 chines due to the energy in the rotating masses in turbines an d generators and are most important the ﬁrst few second after a disturbance. The frequency containment reserves (FRC) ar e automatically and fully activated within 30sin the Nordic grid. The FRC is locally activated and implemented in the governor control as frequency droop control. There are two levels of FCR in the Nordic grid, FCR-N is activated at frequency deviations 0.1Hzwhile FCR-D is activated at 49.9Hzand fully activated at 49.5Hz. The two slowest levels of power reserves, Secondary and tertiary reserves, are not
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Differentially-Private Heat and Electricity Markets Coordination Lesia Mitridati, Emma Romei, Gabriela Hug Institute for Power Systems High Voltage Technology ETH Zurich Z urich, Switzerland fmitridati,eromei,hug g eeh.ee.ethz.chFerdinando Fioretto Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Syracuse University Syracuse, USA fﬁorett syr.edu Abstract Sector coordination between heat and electricity systems has been identiﬁed has an energy-efﬁcient and cost- effective way to transition towards a more sustainable energy system. However, the coordination of sequential markets relies on the exchange of sensitive information between the market operators, namely time series of consumers loads. To address the privacy concerns arising from this exchange, this paper introduces a novel privacy-preserving Stackel- berg mechanism ( w-PPSM) which generates differentially- private data streams with high ﬁdelity. The proposed w- PPSM enforces the feasibility and ﬁdelity of the privacy- preserving data with respect to the original problem through a post-processing phase in order to achieve a close-to- optimal coordination between the markets. Multiple numer- ical simulations in a realistic energy system demonstrate the effectiveness of the w-PPSM, which achieves up to two orders of magnitude reduction in the cost of privacy compared to a traditional differentially-private mechanism. Index Terms multi-energy systems, hierarchical optimiza- tion, differential privacy, time series, Laplace noise I. Introduction The development of market-based coordination mech- anisms for heat and electricity systems has been identi- ﬁed as a crucial step towards an energy-efﬁcient, cost- effective, and sustainable energy system 1 , 2 . Recent advances in the literature have modelled the coordina- tion between sequential and interdependent markets as aStackelberg game 3 5 . In particular, the electricity- aware heat market (EAHM) developed in 3 provides a market-based mechanism for the coordination of heat and electricity systems. This market framework is mod- elled as a bilevel optimization problem and relies on the sharing of information between the electricity and heat market operators to achieve an optimal coordination. Despite recent regulatory changes encouraging infor- mation exchange between system operators 6 , users in the electricity market may be reluctant to exchange some information with the heat market operator due to privacy concerns. Revealing this sensitive data may provide a competitive advantage over other strategic agents, reveal identifying personal information, induce This work is partially funded by the NCCR Automation.ﬁnancial losses and security risks for the users, and even beneﬁt external attackers 7 , 8 . In particular, in the EAHM developed in 3 and used in this paper as a target application, we consider that the hourly electricity loads of individual consumers represent a sensitive data stream to be obfuscated before releasing to the heat market operator. To address this privacy issue, Differential Privacy (DP) has emerged as a robust privacy framework for multiple applications 9 . DP relies on the injection of carefully calibrated noise to protect the disclosure of the individu- als data, while allowing to extract information about the population. This framework can thus be used to obfuscate the sensitive data exchanged between the electricity and heat market operators in the EAHM. In particular, the w-privacy framework introduced in 10 provides an interesting framework to obfuscate time series of hourly data, such as electricity loads, within a predeﬁned time window. However, the obfuscation of highly correlated and high-dimensional streams of data is particularly challenging due to the high level of noise required to maintain privacy goals 11 . When obfuscated data is used as input to optimization problems with strong techno-economic constraints, such as market clearing problems in energy systems, it may lead to severe ﬁdelity and feasibility issues. To address this issue the authors in 12 developed an optimization-based ﬁdelity-recovery phase to classic DP mechanisms. This approach has been adapted to the exchange of information in Stackelberg games, and applied to the coordination of electricity and natural gas markets in 13 . However, these recent ad- vances in the literature are limited to classic deﬁnitions of DP . To the best of our knowledge, there is no existing mechanism to share differentially-private data streams with high ﬁdelity in Stackelberg games. Given the described research gaps, the contributions of this paper are threefold: 1) We introduce the novel w-PPSM which allows for the sharing of differentially-private data streams in Stackelberg games with high ﬁdelity. This mech- anism uses an optimization-based approach toarXiv:2201.10634v1 eess.SY 25 Jan 2022 recover the ﬁdelity and feasibility of the obfus- cated data w.r.t. the original Stackelberg game. This mechanism is developed for the target application of the coordination between heat and electricity markets and the exchange of hourly electricity loads over a 24-hour window. 2) We show that the w-PPSM satisﬁes interesting the- oretical properties. In particular, it achieves strong privacy goals while providing a bound on the error introduced on the obfuscated sensitive data. 3) Through multiple numerical simulations, we show the efﬁciency and robustness of the w-PPSM under varying privacy parameters and operating condi- tions. The numerical results show that the w-PPSM can achieve up to two orders of magnitude cost reduction compared to a standard differentially- private mechanism. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the target application, Section III summarizes the background on DP , Section IV deﬁnes the proposed w-PPSM, Section V presents the numerical results, and Section VI concludes this paper. Nomenclature A. Leader and follower s data ( DL,DF) rE jElectricity efﬁciency ratio of CHP j(-) rH jHeat efﬁciency ratio of CHP j(-) COP jCoefﬁcient of performance of HP j(-) CH jtVariable heat cost of supplier jat time t(e Wh) CE jtVariable electricity cost of supplier jat time t(e Wh) Emax jtMaximum electricity output of supplier jat time t (Wh) Emin jtMinimum electricity output of supplier jat time t(Wh) Fmax jMaximum fuel consumption of CHP j(Wh) Hmax jtMaximum heat output of supplier jat time t(Wh) Hmin jtMinimum heat output of supplier jat time t(Wh) LE ltElectricity load lat time t(Wh) LH ltHeat load lat time t(Wh) Rj Minimum power-to-heat ratio of CHP j(-) TCmax zz0tMaximum transmission capacity from zone ztoz0at time t(Wh) TCmin zz0tMinimum transmission capacity from zone
__label__energy	Computational Assessment of Biomass Dust Explosions in the 20L Sphere Alain Islasa, Andrés Rodríguez Fernándeza, Covadonga Betegónb, Emilio Martínez-Pañedacand Adrián Pandala, aDepartment of Energy, University of Oviedo - 33203 Gijón, Asturias, Spain bDepartment of Construction and Manufacturing Engineering, University of Oviedo - 33203 Gijón, Asturias, Spain cDepartment of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London - London, SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Dust explosions Biomass CFD OpenFOAMABSTRACT Determination of the explosion severity parameters of biomass is crucial for the safety management anddustexplosionriskassessmentofbiomass-processingindustries. Thesearecommonlydetermined followingexperimentaltestsinthe20Lsphereaccordingtotheinternationalstandards. Recently,CFD simulations have emerged as a reliable alternative to predict the explosion behavior with good accu- racyandreducedlaborandcapital. Inthiswork,numericalsimulationsofbiomassdustexplosionsare conductedwiththeopen-sourceCFDcodeOpenFOAM.Themulti-phase(gas-solid)ﬂowistreatedin an Eulerian-Lagrangian framework, using a two-way coupling regime and considering the reactions ofbiomassconversion(moistureevaporation,devolatilization,andcharoxidation),thecombustionof volatile gases, and convective and radiative heat transfer. The model is validated with pressure-time and concentration-dependent experimental measurements of two biomass samples. Results suggest that the characteristics of the cold-ﬂow (ı.e. turbulence levels, actual dust concentration, spatial dis- tribution of the dust cloud, and turbophoresis eﬀect) govern the course of the explosion process, and depend strongly on particle size, dust concentration, and ignition delay time eﬀects. These ﬁndings may be relevant in the design of better dust explosion testing devices and to the reexamination of the guidelines for the operation of the experiment. Finally, a thorough discussion on the explosion pressures,degreeofbiomassconversion,ﬂametemperature,ﬂamepropagationpatterns,andthedust agglomeration eﬀect is presented. 1. Introduction Dustexplosionsareanever-presentthreatwhereverbulk powders are handled in the process industries 1 . Since the ﬁrst reported accident in 1785 2 , dust explosions have become a serious concern due to their inherent destructive power and high occurrence. Yuan et al. 3 reported that morethan2000dustexplosiondisastersoccurredworldwide between1785and2012,beingChinaandtheUSAthecoun- tries with most incidence. More recently, in 2020 a total of 60 dust explosions were reported worldwide 4 , from which72 werecausedbywoodandfoodproducts. Among thesecombustibledustincidents(ﬁresandexplosions),stor- agesilosdemonstratedthehighestpercentageofrecurrence. Consequently,organicdustexplosionsshouldbeconsidered as a serious hazard in the process industries (e.g. biomass or agricultural), being operational and dynamic risk assess- ments required to better comprehend the probability of oc- currence of dust explosions and its potential severity 5 8 . Aﬁrststepinthedustexplosionriskassessmentisto(1) identifydusthazardsanddeterminethelikelihoodofexplo- sion of dust clouds. Following the ASTM E1226 9 , ISO 6184 10 orEN14034 11 standards,closedvesseltesting is used to determine whether or not a dust cloud in suspen- sion is capable of initiating and sustaining an explosion in the presence of an ignition source. The explosion param- Corresponding author: ORCID(s): 0000-0001-6006-2199 ( Adrián Pandal)eters of interest are: (a) the maximum explosion pressure Pmax,(b)thedeﬂagrationindex Kst,(c)thelimitingoxygen concentration (LOC), and (d) the minimum explosive con- centration(MEC).Theothercommonstepsinadustexplo- sion risk assessment include: (2) evaluation of the dust ex- plosion hazards (e.g., ﬂash ﬁres, secondary explosions), (3) identiﬁcation of the risks (e.g., injuries to personnel, fatali- ties, plant damages), (4) dust hazard management (i.e., risk reduction and explosion prevention protection measures) and (5) data collection, documentation and training com- petence development. The explosion parameters are partic- ularlyusefultoclassifythedusthazardsaccordingtoexplo- sionrisklevels 12 andserveasthebaseinputfordesigning explosion protection system: venting panels 13 15 , isola- tion valves 16, 17 , and suppression systems 18, 19 . Formerly,whencomparedtocoalormetaldust 20,21 , reporting explosivity test results of biomass samples was of secondaryinterest. Firstdatawaspublishedinthelate1990 s 22, 23 and early 2000 s 24 . However, with the advent of biomass as a CO2neutral, renewable energy source for power generation, and because wood represents one of the largestbiomassenergyresourcestoday 25 ,thedemandfor conducting dust explosion risk assessments has increased considerably. Whatismore,withtheprogressoftechnology and growth of large-scale storage equipment, safe dimen- sioningofmitigatingmeasuresrequiresadequateknowledge about the burning rate of dust clouds in actual process situ- ations 26 . For this reason, in the last decade the number Islas et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 28arXiv:2207.13149v1 physics.flu-dyn 26 Jul 2022 ofexperimentalstudiesondustexplosiontestingraisedsig- niﬁcantly and focused mainly on describing the eﬀects of dustconcentration 27 ,caloriﬁcvalues 28 30 ,burntmass 31 , particle size 32 , and volatile matter content 33 35 on the explosion severity parameters. Along with experimental research, the increasing com- putationalcapabilitieshavedemonstratedthatnumericalmod- elscanbeaneﬀectivetooltopredictthehazardousexplosion potential of dust clouds 26, 36 . These vary from simple mathematical models 37 40 to more complex CFD sim- ulations 41 43 . CFD methods are especially well suited forunderstandingdeﬂagrationdevelopmentandpropagation inside equipment or through complex structures 12 . To calibrate these models, a frequent practice is to ﬁrst per- form CFD simulations of dust dispersion and explosion ex- perimentsinthestandardizedapparatus: theHartmanntube 44,45 ,the20LSiweksphere 46 48 ,orthe1m3ISOves- sel 49 . Thesemodelscanreducethetimeconsuminglabor and expensive costs of experimental testing. Furthermore, numerical simulations can unveil a broader understanding of the ﬂow phenomena that are not accessible through ex- periments. Due to its reduced size and quicker testing times, the 20Lsphereisoftenpreferredoverthe1m3vessel,beingthe latter mostly used when spurious data appears in or a dou- ble check of the results is necessary. Notably, CFD stud- ies on biomass dust explosions in the 20L sphere are still scarce, with only a couple of works published in the liter- ature 50 52 . Yet better methods for predicting real dust cloudgeneration,ignition,devolatilization,combustion,and heat transfer processes are needed. The present paper ac- counts for a subsequent step to our ﬁrst work 53 with the long-termobjectiveofconstructinganaccurateengineering toolforthesimulationoflarge-scaledustexplosionsinspe- ciﬁc industrial geometries. Therefore, dust explosions are simulated in the standard 20L sphere equipped with the re- boundnozzleandproceedingaccordingtotheASTME1226 standard. Speciﬁcally, two diﬀerent biomass dust samples are evaluated, accounting for signiﬁcantly diﬀerent particle size distributions. The model features detailed calculations of the radiative properties of the gas-solid mixture and de- volatilizationkinetics,anditisconstructedintheopen-source CFD code OpenFOAM 8. The CFD model is initially vali- dated with pressure-time evolution measurements and then, the performance to capture the maximum explosion pres- sures among diﬀerent dust concentrations is evaluated. Fi- nally, the CFD model is used to assess the role of dust con- centration and ignition delay time on the maximum explo- sion pressures, aiming to promote the knowledge of the key aspects of dust explosions and the development of the CFD tools towards this end.Table 1 Ultimate and proximate analyses of the biomass samples. Label Biomass 1 Biomass 2 SamplePellets AsturiasaCupressus Funebrisb Proximate analysis (wt. ar) Fixed carbon 14.16 19.14 Volatile matter 77.04 66.86 Moisture 8.33 12.71 Ash 0.47 1.29 Ultimate analysis (wt. daf) C 50.25 50.13 H 6.02 6.02 O 43.45 43.49 N 0.28 0.36 Lower
__label__energy	Stackelberg game -based o ptimal scheduling of integrated energy systems considering differences in heat demand across multi -functional areas Limeng Wang a, Ranran Yang b, , Yang Q u a, Chengzhe X u c a. Key Laboratory of Modern Power System Simulation and Control Renewable Energy Technology, Ministry of Education Northeast Electric Power University), Jilin 132012, China b. State Grid Nanyang Power Supply Company , Nanyang 473000 , China c. State Grid Jilin Power Supply Company , Changchun 130000 , China A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T Article history: Demand -side management is very critical in China s energy system s because of its high fossil energy consumption and low system energy efficiency. A building shape factor is introduced in describing the architectural characteristics of different functional areas, which are combined with the characteristics of the energy consumed by user s to investigate the features of heating load in different functional areas. A Stackelberg game -based optimal scheduling model is proposed for electro -thermal integrated energy systems, which seeks to maximize the revenue of integrated energy operator (IEO) and minimize the cost of users . Here, IEO and users are the Stackelberg game leader and followers , respectively. The l eader use s real-time energy prices to guide loads to participate in demand response, while the followers make energy plans based on price feedback. Using the Karush -Kuhn -Tucker (KKT ) condition and the big-M method , the model is transformed into a mixed -integer quadratic programming (MIQP) problem, which is solved by using MATLAB and CPLEX software. The results demonstrate that the proposal manages to balance the interests of IEO and users . Furthermore, the heat ing loads of public and residential areas can be managed separately based on the differences in energy consum ption and building shape charac teristics, thereby improving the system operational flexibility and promoting renewable energy consumption . Keywords: Electro -thermal Integrated Energy System; Stackelberg Game; Integrated Demand Response; Buildings Thermal Inertia; PMV index; Thermal Network Characteristic 1 Introduction With the increasing energy crisis and environmental pollution, how to build a modern energy system to ensure a safe, clean and sustainable energy supply has become a crucial issue 1 . In this context , vigorously developing and utilizing renewable energies has become an inevitable choice to achieve sustainable energy supply . With the increasing penetration rate of uncertain renewable energy, the secure and stable operation of the system is faced with new challenges 2 . Integrated energy systems may take full advantage of the benefits of multiple complementary energy sources and improve the utilization of renewable energy 3-5 . As a critical component of an integrated energy system ( IES) 6,7 , electro -thermal integrated energy system can save expenditure on the energy bill via multi -energy complementarity 8 . Deepen ing the coupling between the power and thermal systems can achieve the effect of energy cascade utilization and improve the comprehensive utilization efficiency , which highlights the i mportance of collaborative research on the optimal operation of the electric and thermal systems 8 . An electro -thermal integrated energy system may dynamically se lect resources in two dimensions of time and loc ation to meet the user s power load need and thermal comfort demand 10 . The reason is that the electrical and ther mal loads reach their respective peaks at different times 11 . Corresponding author. E-mail address: stillwaterrundeep1 163.com . Nomenclature Acronyms IDR Integrated demand response CHP Combined heat and power IES Integrated energy system IEO Integrated energy operator DHN District heating network KKT Karush -Kuhn -Tucker DHS District heating system PMV Predicted mean vote PDTP Dynamic thermal performance BTI Thermal inertia of buildings DR Demand response TP Thermal power Sets and Parameters nsS Node set of supply pipes nrS Node set of return pipes psS The pipe s ets of supply pipes prS The pipe sets of return pipes I The set of CHP unit J The set of thermal power unit U The set of CHP unit , thermal power unit, BESS sourceQ The heat energy obtained from heat source (MW) ,ktq The mass flow of pipe k at time t ( kg s ) waterC Speci fic heat capacity of hot water medium ( )J kg ,,k t sT The temperature of water supply pipeline s ( ) ,,ktrT The temperature of water return pipeline s ( ) ,ktQ The heat energy of the k-th pipe at time t (MW) ,ktv The flow velocity of the k-th pipe at time t ,kt The delay time of k-th pipe (h) R The average thermal resistance kQ The heat loss of the k-th pipe (MW) ,kt soilT The temperature of the soil outside the k-th pipe at time t ( ) tH The suppl ied of heat energy at time t (MW) htcK The heating transfer coefficient of the building mt The average temperature of the skin surface ( ) l The cost factor for charging and discharging ,mineh Minimum electricity thermal price ( mwh ) ,maxeh Maximum electricity thermal price ( mwh ) , ,e h t mean Average electricity and thermal price ( mwh ) Variables ,pv tP PV power output in period t (MW) , wind tP WT power output in period t (MW) ,L TS tP Time -shiftable electric load in period t (MW) ,,cut r tH Cuttable heating load in period t in residential building areas (MW) ,,cut p tH Cuttable heating load in period t in the public building area (MW) ,e h t Real-time electricity thermal price in period t ( MWh) ,,con j tP Electric power of TP unit j in period t (MW) ,,chp i tP Electric power of CHP unit i in period t (MW) ,,chp i tH Heat power of CHP unit i in period t (MW) ,utR Reserve capacities of unit i j or the BESS in period t (MW) ,,e cha tP Charge power
__label__energy	COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRESS IN APPLIED SCIENCE ENGINEERING (CRPASE) CRPASE: TRANSACTIONS OF ELECTRICAL, ELECTRONIC AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING Journal homepage: http: www.crpase.com CRPASE: Transactions of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering 7 (2) Article ID: 2351 , 1 9, June 2021 ISSN 2423 -4591 C R P A S e Research Article HydroPower Plant Planning for Resilienc e Improvement of Power Systems u sing Fuzzy -Neural based Genetic Algorithm Akbal Rain 1, Mert Emre Saritac 2 1 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , Southern Illinois University of Carbondale , USA 2 Department of Computer Science, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth , USA Keywords Abstract Deep Spiking Neural Network (DSNN) , Fuzzy Logic , Genetic Algorithm (GA) , Hydropower , Load Frequency Control (LFC) , Planning , Proportional -Derivative (PD) . This paper will propose a novel technique for optimize hydropower plant in small scale based on load frequency control (LFC) which use self -tuning fuzzy Proportional - Derivative (PD) method for estimation and prediction of planning. Due to frequency is not controlled by any dump load or something else, so this power plant is under dynamic frequency variations that will use PD controller which optimize by fuzzy rules and then with neural deep learning techniques and Genetic Algorithm optimization. The main purpose of this work is because to maintain frequency in small -hydropower plant at nominal value. So, proposed controller means Fuzzy PD optimization with Genetic Algori thm will be used for LFC in small scale of hydropower system. The proposed schema can be used in different designation of both diesel generator and mini -hydropower system at low stream flow. It is also possible to use diesel generator at the hydropower sys tem which can be turn off when Consumer demand is higher than electricity generation. The simulation will be done in MATLAB Simulink to represent and evaluate the performance of this control schema under dynamic frequency variations. Spiking Neural Network (SNN) used as the main deep learning techniques to optimizing this load frequency control which turns into Deep Spiking Neural Network (DSNN). Obtained results represented that the proposed schema has robust and high -performance frequency control in compa rison to other methods . 1. Introduction Environmental concerns due to the emissions of natural gas power plants as well as high investment costs of these assets render power systems to be operated mainly by renewable energy resources such photovoltaic, wind, hydropower, etc . 1 . At recent decade, small hydro -power used in developing countries which plays a vital r ole in rural electrification . This microgrid is o ne of the renewable energies which has some advantages which listed below 2 : I) Storage time is low due to lack of heat II) There is no pollution when this energy working Corresponding Author: Mert Emre Saritac E-mail address: msaritac umassd.edu Received: 1 April 2021; Revised: 1 May 2021; Accepted: 10 June 2021 https: doi.org 10.52547 crpase.7.2.2351 Please cite this article as: A. Rain , M. E. Saritac , Estimation and Prediction Optimization of Hydropower System Planning with Fuzzy - Neural Networks based on Genetic Algorithm , Computational Research Progress in Applied Science Engineering , CRPASE: Transactions of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering 7 (2021) 1 9, Article ID : 2351 . III) Low cost with more reliability and reducing transmission losses due to no long trans mission network IV) There is no need to stand connected loads; instead, there is a growing gap from supply to monthly electricity demand. Small -hydropower has the best potential in the most areas of the world which consider low cost with more benefit for new green energy for futures 3 . Small -hydropower has faced with new technology in 2015 to 2019 in control part which will be rev iew at the continue of this article, but it also considers some challenges for more stability, load frequency control (LFC), and new kinds o f intelligent controllers 4, 5 . Rain and Saritac - CRPASE: Transactions of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering 7 (2) Article ID : 2351 , 1 9, June 2021 C R P A S e 2 Eliminating the mismatch between production and load keeps the system frequency constant. The most important aspect of operation of electric power systems is to be resilient and controllable in the case of disturbances 6 . These controllers need to be reliable; in other words, they must manage load fluctuations and system disturbances in limitation of voltage and frequency 7 . In this study, a new m odel proposed for more stability of hydropower systems in small scale which use Secondary Load Controller (SLC) for dividing extra power generated by the power plant. This happened when frequency is sensing in the small -hydropower. The SLC always have loads in generator and also in turbine side, due to small - hydropower has some low in terms of working. The main goal of this study is to provide simple operation at the system level with low cost and low maintenance with more reliability and stability and als o plug -and-play mode to install it at the any parts of electrical systems. So, using SLC can solve many problems in small scale hydropower system about controlling frequency and voltage in any area with minimum cost and the best performance. The controller of small -hydropower system is PD which is varied at any times. This state of PD controller, created an uncertainty which require to use fuzzy logic to tuning PD controller. Fuzzy logic used due to presenting membership function and accurate measuring. At the other side, SLC needs a quick response to adjust the frequency during high current periods in order to turn off the diesel production system. So, Genetic Algorithm optimize fuzzy PD controller. Because of needing robustness and more adaptive controller, the essential use of Fuzzy logic is obvious which can be provide more flexibility in decision -making process to interact between machines -to-machines and machines -to- humans. Also a new model pr oposed which can optimize Fuzzy -PD
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	1 Luminescent solar power PV thermal hybrid electricity generation for cost -effective dispatchable solar energy Shimry Haviv , 1 Natali Revivo , 1 Nimrod Kruger,2 Assaf Manor,1 Bagrat Khachatryan,1 Michael Shustov,1 and Carmel Rotschild 1,2 1Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Technion Israel Institute of Technology, Israel 2The Nancy and Stephen Grand Technion Energy Program (GTEP), Technion Israel Institute of Technology, I srael KEYWORDS : high-temperature p hotoluminescence; solar energy; rare earth emitters; hybrid PV thermal 2 ABSTRACT The challenge in solar energy today is not the cost of photovoltaic (PV) electricity generation, already competing with fossil fuel prices, but rather utility -scale energy storage and flexibility in supply. Low -cost thermal energy storage (TES) exists but relies on expensive heat engines. Here, we introduce the concept of luminescent solar power (LSP), where sunlight is absorbed in a photoluminescent (PL) absorber, followed by red -shifted PL emission matched to an adjacent PV cell s band -edge. This way the PV cell operates nearly as efficiently as under direct illumination, but with minimal excessive heat. The PL -absorber temperature rises due to thermalization, allowing it to store the excessive heat, which can later be converted into electricity. Tailored luminescent materials that support an additional 1.5kWh PV -electricity for every 1 kWh of (virtual) heat engine -electricity, with a dynamic shift between the two sources are experimentally demonstrated. Such an ideal hybrid system may lead to a potential r eduction in the cost of elect ricity for a base -load solution . 3 INTRODUCTION Concentrated solar power (CSP) denotes the technology wherein a thermal absorber is heated by the concentrated sunlight, thus enabling thermal energy storage (TES) for dispatchable generation1 3. CSP electricity generation is considered expensive in terms of the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE), roughly 7 kWh nowadays, in regions with high solar flux4,5, compared to 2 kWh6 for Si -based photovoltaics (PVs) in similar regional conditions . Nevertheless, recent industrial progress in small solar fields with higher efficiency7, and new heat engines8,9, as well as high -temperature hydrolysis10, puts CSP as a vital alternative to batterie s for baseload solutions due to its low LCOE (1 kWh11) portion for TES. Projection o f a base -load solar energy LCOE below 3 kWh implies that, potentially, half the US energy production may come from solar by 205012 and also comply with the European green deal roadmap13,14. To utilize both heat energy and PV electricity from solar radiation, we may, for instance, look to the concept of solar thermal PV (STPV)15,16, where the energetic tail of thermal emission is harve sted by a low band -gap solar cell. Another relatively new concept called thermally enhanced photoluminescence (TEPL)17 involves the coupling of PL from a low band -gap absorber to a high band -gap PV cell by ther mally induced blue -shift. Despite very high theoretical maximal efficiencies, these concepts require high operating temperatures of about 2000 C and 1000 C, respectively, which limit their practicality. Furthermore, they cannot be used for TES as both requ ire maintaining the heat for maximal PV efficiency. Alternatively, hybrid concentrated photovoltaic thermal (PV T)18 20 methods, where electricity generation by a PV cell is performed in parallel to the extraction of unused heat, thus allowing TES, can potentially meet the requirements for constructing the sought after renewable base -load solution. Current PV T techniques such as spectral splitting, where part of the solar spectrum is channeled 4 to the PV cell while the other is channeled to a heat cycle, however, fall short because they sacrifice heat utilization for PV efficiency or vice versa. The concept we propose here can best be explained thermodynamically by introducing the ideal PV T concept of PV heating. A solar cell, when conventionally operating at 20 30 efficiency, converts the residual 70 80 of the incident solar power into heat. Conceptually, if the solar cell would work efficiently at high temperatures, 500oC for example, the heat accumulated on the cell could be converted into electricity in parallel through a conventional heat engine as in CSP. This would result in an additional 20 30 efficiency. Unfortunately, such an ideal hybrid PV CSP solution cannot be done with solar cells, as their efficiency inh erently drops as the temperature rises due to a reduction in open circuit voltage21. Nonetheless, what cannot be done with electrons in PVs can be done optically by PL. We note that as far as we know, PL in the context of solar energy was only used in luminescent solar concentrators22,23 for driving PV cells, without utilizing the excessive heat for electricity. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The PL process is very similar to what occurs in PVs. It conven tionally involves the absorption of energetic photons, followed by thermalization and emission of low energy red -shifted photons. The external quantum efficiency (EQE) the ratio between emitted photons and absorbed photons does not necessarily depend str ongly on the temperature of the PL - absorber24,25. When the emission is tuned to fit a PV cell s band -edge, the PL -absorber retains each photon s extra heat, while the PV cell converts the emission to electricity with minimal wasted heat26. This concept, namely luminescent solar power (LSP), removes the thermal portion at the sin gle-photon level and enables an optimal spatial separation of heat energy from the free - energy, which is then available to the PV cell for maximal concentrated PV T performance. 5 Figure 1a pictorially details our concept. Solar radiation is concentrated on a PL -absorber that absorbs the high -energy photons and, after thermalization, emits low-energy photons with a high EQE at high temperatures. A diffusive surface at the back of the PL -absorber , together with a highly reflective coating at the front face direct s the PL towards the PV cell s side. The emitted Figure 1. Illustration of the LSP concept . (a) Concentrated sunlight illum inates a PL - absorber. The red -shifted PL emission is then coupled to a PV cell with
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	arXiv:1808.06456v1 physics.app-ph 20 Aug 2018Could spectral converters really enhance photovoltaics? Marcos Paulo Belan cona aP os-gradua c ao em processos qu ımicos e bioqu ımicos, U niversidade Tecnol ogica Federal do Paran a, Via do Conhecimento Km 1, 85503-390 Pato Branco - Brazil Abstract Spectral converters 1, 2, 3 have been proposed as a tool to ac hieve high eﬃciencies from Silicon photovoltaics(PV). Even though from the sc ientiﬁcal point of view it could be interesting to acomplish that, scientists shou ld concentrate eﬀort to invest in materials that can provide more ret urn: in the case of spectral converters, they are very unlikely to have a place in ﬂat- panel PV s. However, concentrated photovoltaics (CPV) techno logy may get a boost from such devices, an more attention should be driven to th is goal. Keywords: Absorption spectra, AgNPs, Luminescence, Plasmon resonance, Tungstate-tellurite glasses 1. Introduction Single junction Silicon solar cells share 90 of the world photovoltaic production 4 . Scientists have been trying to develop newer techno logies into theindustrylevel, suchasthin-ﬁlms 5 . Byimprovingenergyconver sion, cost andscaleofproduction 6 theyaimbyonehandtoreducelandusean denergy cost. By another hand, there is a growing worry about the future availability of key raw materials that could constraint the maximum production s cale of some technologies 7, 8, 9 . Even Silicon PV s may face some constra int, mainly due Silver 10 , which is the most common material choice of indust ry to build the thin wires that collect the current from the surface of P V cells. The last decade of subsidies speed up the pass of industry innovatio n, and every single piece of the Silicon PV supply chain have been optimized to reduce cost 4 . Since 2011, the price of polycristalline Silicon has dr opped by 75 ; average polysilicon per wafer (156x156 mm2) is expected to decrease Email address: marcosbelancon utfpr.edu.br (Marcos Paulo Belan cona) Preprint submitted to Arxiv June 12, 2021 20 in the next decade mainly by reducing cell thickness, as well Silver consumption is expected to be cutted by half. Even front glasses in modules arebeingoptimizedtobethinner, allofthatreducingmaterialscons umption, weight, etc, pushing prices down. These eﬀorts from industry hav e created a huge challenge for scientists. The technologies being developed sh ould be more eﬃcient, while avoiding scarse minerals, be able to reach Tera watt scale of production and compete with Silicon PV s that have experienc ed a production learning curve as long as few decades. 2. Economics of spectral converters One approach oftenly discussed in the literature is to develop spect ral converters 11, 12, 13 , mainly to be used in Silicon PV s. Theoretically, between the ultraviolet and the near infrared, due the mismatch be tween Silicon bandgap and the solar spectrum, there is 150 W m2of sunlight that could be downconverted and 160 W m2that could be upconverted 13 . A few diﬀerent mechanisms could be explored to enhance energy de nsity in Silicon PV s, the most obvious one should be by quantum cutting on e UV Blue photon in two infrared photons, where it is more likely to have photons converted into electric current in the Silicon PV. Even though promising, such approaches have to be carefully critic ized. Silicon PV s today can harvest about 450 W m2, which is translated in the fact that Silicon solar cell eﬃciency is limited at about 30 , and a downc on- verting layer could improve this number to not more than 38.6 14 . Fr om the industry point of view, such layer could cost at maximum 1 3 of th e PV module price; i.e. Silicon PV at the industry scale level can already produce 300 W m2 4 , which could be improved by an ideal downconverting layer to 400 W m2. If we consider the manufacturing module cost of about 0.31 US Wpexperienced by industry last year, one could conclude that a downconverting layer can make sense at the industry level only if its costs can go below 30 US per module, or about 20 US m2. Each mm of glass in the front surface of the module weights about 2.5kg m2, what means that if we aim to employ scarse, high purity and expensive materials to produce a downconverting layer, it should be a thin- ﬁlm. By this way, a layer one micrometer thick, would consume 2-3 gra ms of raw material per m2if its density is similar to that of borosilicate glass. So, at around 10 US a gram, what are the raw materials available for us to help industry push Silicon PV towards its limits? 2 3. Photovoltaics versus Concentrated photovoltaics in the future In the literature, a few diﬀerent thin ﬁlms have been investigated to work as downconverting layer in Silicon PV. For example, Elleuch et al 1 5 have succesfully prepared downconverting antireﬂective thin ﬁlms based on ZnO:Er3 ,Yb3 , and Lin et al 16 demonstrated an impressive small reﬂec- tivity of only 1.46 in Y2O3:Bi3 ,Yb3 thin ﬁlms. In both works the im- provement of Silicon PV eﬃciency was not measured, even though th eYb3 emission around 980 nm have been proposed as a path to achieve dow n- conversion of UV VIS photons. In any case, high purity raw mater ials are needed and complex techniques are employed to produce the layers . To reach TW scale of production in the future, we cannot rely on such approa chs if we take into account that at industry level we can spend just a few dollars per square meter. Commercial antireﬂective (AR) coatings today have a lifetime of abo ut 10 years 4 , what is expected to double in the next decade; and they are not spectral converters. So, even if we could make these AR-coating s become spectral converters without introducing any cost, the short life time would make the ﬁnal energy production of the panel just marginally highe r. By the considerations presented here, the conclusion we have fou
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	arXiv:2103.14099v2 cond-mat.stat-mech 9 Feb 2025Random walker derivation of Archie s law Clinton DeW. Van Siclen 1435 W 8750 N, Tetonia, Idaho 83452, USA (Dated: 9 February 2025) Theoretical justiﬁcation is provided for Archie s law. Thi s phenomenological equation, having the form of a power law, relates the measured electrical resisti vity of electrolyte-saturated rock samples to their connected porosity. Historically it has been impor tant for oil and gas exploration. I. INTRODUCTION The empirical Archie s law 1 came out of the labo- ratory, where electrical resistivity ρand porosity φval- ues were obtained for samples of a particular rock type fully saturated by brine or other electrolyte. The pairs of measured values φandρ ρe(ρeis the resistivity of the electrolyte) were plotted on a ln ln plot and ﬁt to a straight line, with slope m. Thus Archie s law has the form F aφ m(1) whereFis the so-called resistivity formation factor, F ρ ρe 1. (2) Like the exponent m, the prefactor acharacterizes a collection of rock samples that exhibits Archie s law. Thus Eq. (1) shows that the value F aas the sam- ple porosities φ 1. That limit is never reached since a rock sample with φ 1is nonsensical. Then Eq. (2) reveals that the prefactor a 1. The utility of Archie s law follows from the circum- stance that the points fall on, or very near, that best-ﬁt line. In that case Archie s law can be used in conjunction with resistivity logs (measurements) taken in the ﬁeld, to obtain an estimate of the (conductive) porosity of the rock formation in question (the rock matrix itself is not conductive). An anomalously high measured resistivity value may indicate the presence of non-conductive oil or gas in the pore space. Here it is more convenient to consider the relation σ σe φµ(3) whereσandσeare the electrical conductivities of a sat- urated rock sample and the electrolyte, respectively, and µis the cementation exponent for that sample. (In con- trast, the cementation exponent mis obtained graphically from a collection of samples of the rock type.) The formula for the exponent µis obtained below in a manner that makes clear its value is determined by the particular heterogeneity of the porous rock. The cvansiclen gmail.comderivation relies on the walker diﬀusion method (WDM), which is introduced in the following section. Section III then presents the derivation of µ, and Sec. IV discusses and gives meaning to the parameters that emerge from the derivation. Section V gives a brief discussion of the Menger and Sierpinski sponges, which are recursive not natural fractals, mainly to show example sets of the parameter values. Section VI shows that adherence to Archie s law signiﬁes that the rock formation is (statis- tically) self-similar, over the length scales represented in the collection of samples. Section VII applies the model developed in this paper to the artiﬁcial rock that is an electrolyte-saturated assemblage of glass beads. Its porosity can be reduced in steps by sintering. Final com- ments are made in Sec. VIII. Note that, in the remainder of this paper, the symbol φwill refer to the volume fraction composed of the con- ductive domain the electrolyte that spans the sample. That lets the model apply to porous rock that is not fully saturated with electrolyte. II. WALKER DIFFUSION METHOD This application of the WDM 2,3 utilizes the relation σ an bracketle tσ(r) an bracketri htDw (4) between the eﬀective conductivity σof a composite ma- terial and the (dimensionless) diﬀusion coeﬃcient Dwob- tained from walkers diﬀusing through a virtual replica of the composite. The factor an bracketle tσ(r) an bracketri htis the volume average of the constituent conductivities; the vector rlocates a point in that volume. The phase domains that make up the composite are host to walker populations, where the walker density of a population is proportional to the conductivity value of its host domain. The principle of detailed balance en- sures that the population densities are maintained, by providing the following rule for walker diﬀusion over the digitized composite: a walker at site (or pixel voxel) i attempts a move to a randomly chosen adjacent site j during the time interval τ (4d) 1, where dis the Eu- clidean dimension of the system; this move is successful with probability pij σj (σi σj), whereσiandσjare the conductivities of sites iandj, respectively. The path of the walker thus reﬂects the composition and morphol- ogy of the domains that are encountered. 2 The diﬀusion coeﬃcient Dwis calculated by use of the equation Dw angbracketleftbig R(t)2 angbracketrightbig 2dt(5) where the set R of walker displacements, each occur- ring over the time interval t, must have a Gaussian prob- ability distribution that is necessarily centered well be- yond a displacement value ξ. The correlation length ξ is identiﬁed as the length scale above which a composite material attains its eﬀective , or macroscopic, value of a scalar transport property, such as electrical conductivit y. For displacements R ξ , the walker diﬀusion is anomalous rather than Gaussian, due to the heterogene- ity of the composite at length scales less than ξ. Impor- tantly,ξis expressed in units of ξ0, which may be consid- ered the resolution, or size of the smallest feature, of the system. Then a walker displacement ξ,requiring a travel timetξ ξ2 (2dDw), is produced by a walk compris- ing(ξ ξ0)dwsegments of length ξ0, each requiring a travel time oft0 ξ2 0 (2dD0), whereD0is the (dimensionless) walker diﬀusion coeﬃcient associated with displacements R ξ0. Thustξ (ξ ξ0)dwt0, which gives the relation Dw D0 parenleftbiggξ ξ0 parenrightbigg2 dw (6) between the walker diﬀusion coeﬃcient Dw,the correla- tion length ξ(expressed in units of ξ0), and the parameter dwassociated with walker paths of displacement ξ. Note that a random walk through an inﬁnite, homoge- nous, conducting space produces values dw 2and Dw D0 1. III. DERIVATION OF THE EXPONENT µ As porous rock is heterogeneous, the linear dimension Lof a sample is the correlation length ξ. Then by combining Eqs. (4) and (6), the eﬀective
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Community Detection for Power Systems Network Aggregation Considering Renewable Variability Raphael Araujo Sampaio, Gerson Couto Oliveira, Luiz Carlos da Costa Jr. and Joaquim Dias Garcia PSR, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil frsampaio, gerson, luizcarlos, joaquim g psr-inc.com Abstract The increasing penetration of variable renewable en- ergy (VRE) has brought signiﬁcant challenges for power systems planning and operation. These highly variable sources are typi- cally distributed in the grid; therefore, a detailed representation of transmission bottlenecks is fundamental to approximate the impact of the transmission network on the dispatch with VRE resources. The ﬁne grain temporal scale of short term and day- ahead dispatch, taking into account the network constraints, also mandatory for mid-term planning studies, combined with the high variability of the VRE has brought the need to represent these uncertainties in stochastic optimization models while taking into account the transmission system. These requirements impose a computational burden to solve the planning and operation mod- els. We propose a methodology based on community detection to aggregate the network representation, capable of preserving the locational marginal price (LMP) differences in multiple VRE scenarios, and describe a real-world operational planning study. The optimal expected cost solution considering aggregated networks is compared with the full network representation. Both representations were embedded in an operation model relying on Stochastic Dual Dynamic Programming (SDDP) to deal with the random variables in a multi-stage problem. I. I NTRODUCTION The very fast insertion of variable renewable energy (VRE) sources such as wind and PV solar worldwide has brought signiﬁcant economic and environmental beneﬁts. However, the integration of large amounts of VRE capacity into the existing power systems has created new planning and operational challenges. For example, it is well known that 30 GW of wind power in Germany are backed up by almost the same capacity of thermal plants; the reason is that several days of zero wind have occurred. The VRE integration challenges exist even in countries like Brazil, whose hydro plants (70 of todays 160 GW) with multi-year storage can serve as water batteries to manage VRE variability. The reason is that, in the next twenty years, the countrys power mix is likely to change signiﬁcantly, with wind and solar PV dominating generation expansion and reaching 60GW and 55GW, respectively ( 25GW utility scale and 30 GW DG). This massive VRE share led to concerns about the disruption of regional power ﬂow patterns and the increase of production uncertainty well beyond that of hydro generation. These concerns motivated the development of new planning tools for the integrated planning (co-optimization) of genera- tion, interconnection capacities and the generation reserve to handle the variability of existing and planned VRE sources. Fig. 1 shows the main components of this new tool. Fig. 1. Co-optimization of generation, reserve and area interconnections. We observe in the Fig. 1 that the optimal plan is obtained through the iterative solution of four modules: The investment module determines a trial expansion plan (represented by the vectorX) and its associated investment cost, represented as I(X) 1 . Next, the Dynamic Probabilistic Reserve (DPR) module calculates the generation reserve R(X)required to handle the existing and planned VRE variability 2 . The expansion plan and associated reserve are then sent to the operation module, which carries out a probabilistic simulation of the system operation and calculates the expected operation costO(X). Finally, the reliability module calculates the ex- pected load curtailments due to generation and interconnection outages, combined with VRE variability. Also, as seen in Fig. 1, the objective is to ﬁnd a plan that minimizes the sum of investment and expected operation costs, subject to a supply reliability target (for example, the expected energy curtailment should not exceed 0:2 of total yearly load). This optimality is assured by the Benders decompo- sition algorithm, in which the operation and supply reliability modules send linear constraints, known as Benders cuts, to the investment module, which is then re-solved, producing a new plan, and so on. A key component of the above scheme and the focus of this paper is the aggregation of the transmission system, which in the case of Brazil has 10thousand buses and 14 thousand circuits into a multi-area system. In addition to the signiﬁcant computational beneﬁts, this multi-area repre- sentation allows the planner to have a better understanding of the tradeoff between the costs of area generation reserve and of interconnections. The reason is that, in large countries such as Brazil, the spatial correlation of VRE production in different areas is usually small. Therefore, by investing in interconnections, we obtain a portfolio effect and require less reserve. Because of these conceptual and computationalarXiv:1911.04279v1 physics.soc-ph 8 Nov 2019 beneﬁts, research interest in transmission network aggregation methods has increased in the past years. In 2005 , Cheng et al. 3 proposed a reduction method that approximates the power transfer distribution factors (PTDF) and the injection shift factors (ISF) of the original system. However, they are not capable of capturing the variability of congestion in scenarios. In2013 , Cotilla-Sanchez et al. proposed a hybrid evolutionary algorithm, which uses the k-means 4 as local improvement and a multiattribute objective function to partition the network, which takes account the electrical distances, the cluster sizes, the number of clusters, the intra-cluster cohesiveness, and intercluster connectedness. In 2016 , Stocker et al. 5 modiﬁed the 6 , by adding the LMP to the ﬁtness function. In 2018, et al. 7 proposed a spectral clustering, also combined with the LMP. They analyzed a real-world application for network aggregation of Germany, comparing the total system costs obtained using the aggregated network with the reference expansion planning solution. In 2018 , the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO- E) released a review 8 that proposed an algorithm that computes the differences of the LMPs of each circuit and starts grouping the buses with the smallest difference. This procedure is similar to ﬁnd clusters using a minimum spanning tree, like Prims algorithm 9 . This paper presents a new aggregation methodology that uses the
__label__energy	PREPRINT 1 Aggregating Privacy-Conscious Distributed Energy Resources for Grid Service Provision Jun-Xing Chin, Member, IEEE, Andrey Bernstein, Member, IEEE, and Gabriela Hug, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The increasing adoption of advanced metering in- frastructure has led to growing concerns regarding privacy risks stemming from the high resolution measurements. This has given rise to privacy protection techniques that physically alter the consumer s energy load proﬁle, masking private information by using localised devices, e.g. batteries or ﬂexible loads. Mean- while, there has also been increasing interest in aggregating the distributed energy resources (DERs) of residential consumers to provide services to the grid. In this paper, we propose an online distributed algorithm to aggregate the DERs of privacy-conscious consumers to provide services to the grid, whilst preserving their privacy. Results show that the optimisation solution from the distributed method converges to one close to the optimum computed using an ideal centralised solution method, balancing between grid service provision, consumer preferences and privacy protection. More importantly, the distributed method preserves consumer privacy, and does not require high-bandwidth two-way communications infrastructure. Index Terms Ancillary Services, Consumer Privacy, Online Gradient Descent, Mutual Information, Optimisation Methods, Smart Meter, Advanced Metering Infrastructure I. I NTRODUCTION In recent years, the adoption rate of advanced metering in- frastructure (AMI) using smart meters (SMs) has risen steadily across the globe as part of grid modernisation efforts. As of January 2017, 52 of the 150 million electricity consumers in the US have AMI 1 , while in Europe, 13 member states are expected to have AMI adoption rates of over 95 by 2020 2 . In Switzerland, 80 of all electricity meters are to be replaced with SMs by 2027 3 . AMI provides high-frequency energy consumption measurements to utility operators, allowing for data-driven grid management and planning techniques that promise to improve grid efﬁciency and transparency. However, this data also entails serious privacy risks for consumers, as it reveals their detailed electricity consumption proﬁles. Recent studies have shown that potential illnesses, religious practices, socio-demographic proﬁle, and even appliances used can be inferred from AMI data through data analytics and non- intrusive load monitoring techniques 4 8 . A. Smart Meter Consumer Privacy These risks and recent developments in consumer privacy protection laws such as the European Union s General Data This work was supported in part by the Swiss National Science Foundation for the COPES project under the CHIST-ERA Resilient Trustworthy Cyber- Physical Systems (RTCPS) initiative. J.X. Chin, and G. Hug are with the Power Systems Laboratory, ETH Zurich, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland. Email: fchinjhugg eeh.ee.ethz.ch. A. Bernstein is with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401, USA. Email: Andrey.Bernstein nrel.govProtection Regulation 9 , have spurred the development of privacy-enhancing methods for consumers with AMI, which can be split into two categories: smart meter data manipulation (SMDM) and user demand shaping (UDS) 10 . SMDM involves pre-processing the AMI data before it is reported, e.g., data aggregation, data anonymisation, and data obfus- cation. UDS, on the other hand, entails physically shaping the consumer demand such that the grid-visible load, i.e., the grid load no longer reveals private information present in the actual privacy-sensitive consumer load . This is achieved by using behind-the-meter resources such as energy storage devices, ﬂexible loads, and distributed energy sources. While the former may be cheaper to implement, they may impact the utility of the AMI data due to the distortion in the meter readings or may require trusted third parties, e.g, as proposed in 11 , 12 . Moreover, as they do not tackle the issue on the physical level, i.e., the actual energy ﬂow, it might be possible to still decipher the actual consumption depending on the protection used 13 . One of the ﬁrst UDS schemes is described in 14 , where the authors implement a best effort scheme to keep the grid load constant. However, this has been shown to leak information whenever there is a change in grid load 15 , and has since been followed up by more complex schemes such as 16 19 . In 16 , the authors propose a differential-privacy based protection scheme using an ideal battery to mask the on off status of appliances while being cost-friendly. Using a model- distribution predictive control (MDPC) scheme that balances between minimising energy cost and a proxy for privacy loss, the authors in 17 show that a home energy controller can be designed to directly minimise an approximate of mutual information between the grid and consumer loads. And in 18 , the authors propose Q-learning based privacy-enhancing control policies using electric vehicles (EVs), ﬂexible thermal loads, and energy storage devices to overcome limitations in modelling consumer load statistics. The control policies are tested on simulated load proﬁles with an ideal battery and a linearised thermal load model, and show that reasonable privacy-cost trade-off can be achieved by combining a small battery with EVs and an air conditioning device. The authors in 19 derived fundamental bounds on mutual information privacy for consumers with renewable energy sources (RES), both with and without an inﬁnite battery, and proposed a sub- optimal privacy-enhancing scheme for realistic cases (ﬁnite battery) based on stochastic gradient descent. Note that in the absence of a battery, privacy can be enhanced through the curtailment of the available RES production.arXiv:1909.01215v2 eess.SY 26 Oct 2020 PREPRINT 2 B. Residential Demand Side Aggregation and UDS Schemes Meanwhile, the increasing availability of behind-the-meter resources, a.k.a. distributed energy resources (DERs), coupled with the roll-out of smart grid communications infrastructure has spurred the development of demand-side management for smaller loads. Residential consumers, which have traditionally been neglected due to their size, are being aggregated in order to provide services to the grid. Residential demand side aggre- gation (RDSA) schemes can be divided into two main classes: direct load control, and incentive (signal) based schemes. The authors in 20 provide an overview of incentive based RDSA literature, and propose a multi-agent non-cooperative game framework for integrating RDSA schemes with home energy management systems (HEMSs). Nonetheless,
__label__energy	Topology-based Approximations for N 1Contingency Constraints in Power Transmission Networks Amin Shokri Gazafroudia, , Fabian Neumanna,b, Tom Brownb aInstitute for Automation and Applied Informatics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), 76131 Karlsruhe, Germany bInstitute of Energy Technology, Technical University of Berlin, Einsteinufer 25, 10587 Berlin, Germany Abstract It is crucial for maintaining the security of supply that transmission networks continue to operate even if a single line fails. Modeling N 1security in power system capacity expansion problems introduces many extra constraints if all possible outages are accounted for, which leads to a high computational burden. Typical approaches to avoid this burden consider only a subset of possible outages relevant to a given dispatch situation. However, this relies on knowing the dispatch situation beforehand, and it is not suitable for investment optimization problems where the generation f_leet is not known in advance. In this paper, we introduce a heuristic approach to model the fully secured N 1feasible space using a smaller number of constraints in a way that only depends on the topology of transmission networks. In our proposed approach, the network s security is modelled by comparing the polytope of the feasible space of nodal net power obtained from the security-constrained linearized AC optimal power f_low problem. To approximate this polytope, a buﬀer capacity factor is de f_ined for transmission lines in the N 0secure case, thereby avoiding the introduction of many additional constraints. In this way, three approaches are introduced for obtaining a buﬀer capacity factor consisting of approximate, robust and line-speci f_ic approaches. Finally, the performance of our proposed approaches is assessed in diﬀerent scales of transmission networks for determining the proposed buﬀer capacity factors, contin- gency analysis and economic evaluation. Moreover, we f_ind that our proposed heuristics provide excellent approximations of the fully secured N 1solutions with a much lower computational burden. Keywords: Linear optimal power f_low, polytope, power system, reliability, security, transmission network. 1. Introduction 1.1. Motivation Security and reliability are de f_ined as two of the most im- portant goals of power systems to supply power demand con- tinuously 1 . T_hus, N 1criteria have been introduced to retain the power system in a secure state when a single out- age of power system components occurs 2 . Conventionally, N 1security is modelled by many extra constraints to ac- count for all outages, which leads to a high computational bur- den, even when the f_low physics is linearized (a common ap- proach for operational and capacity expansion problems). Typ- ical approaches to avoid this burden are to consider only a subset of possible outages which are relevant for a given dis- patch situation, iteratively adding the outage constraints until the network can be demonstrated by experimentation to be N 1secure 3 . T_his approach depends on the dispatch sit- uation and is unsuitable for investment optimization, where many dispatch situations are considered simultaneously and the generation is not known in advance. In the following sec- tion we summarise diﬀerent approaches in the literature for Corresponding author Email addresses: shokri kit.edu (Amin Shokri Gazafroudi), f.neumann tu-berlin.de (Fabian Neumann), t.brown tu-berlin.de (Tom Brown)modelling security constraints, so-called security-constrained linear optimal power f_low (SCLOPF), to guarantee the power grid s reliability and prevent line overloading and cascading failures in the system. 1.2. Related Works Authors in 2, 4 presented how the current injection method retains the power system s security in the optimal power f_low problem by compensating power f_low of the failed line based on injecting the virtual currents to prevent overloading in rest of the lines in the transmission network. Authors in 5 pre- sented a mixed-integer program for the linearized AC opti- mal dispatch problem with transmission switching consider- ingN 1constraints. In 5 , it has been evaluated how trans- mission switching can keep the security of the power system based on N 1criteria. T_he transmission switching problem was also considered by authors in 6, 7 . A joint unit commit- ment and transmission switching problem considering N 1 constraints has been presented in 6 . A bi-level stochastic op- timal switching model has been introduced for determining line switching strategy considering N 1limitations in 7 . A preventive SCOPF problem has been proposed in 8 where authors assessed the performance of their proposed model in planning and operation problems of the power system. In the preventative SCOPF problems, the proposed problem consists Postprint arXiv:2211.00970v1 physics.soc-ph 2 Nov 2022 of decision-making variables which are feasible for both pre- contingency (before single line outages) and post-contingency (a f_ter single line outages), simultaneously 9 . Ref. 10 pro- posed a risk-based decomposed model for contingencies in the power system. In 11 , contingencies relaxation has been pro- posed. Authors in 12 presented a security-constrained multi- objective optimal power f_low method considering N 1se- curity constraints. Ref. 13 proposed a mixed-integer pro- gramming model for linear optimal power f_low considering N 1conditions for preventing cascading failures in the power network. In 14 , an algorithm has been proposed for reduc- ing the constraints introduced by contingency scenarios of the SCOPF problem and f_inding the feasible space for nodal power injected based on a geometric algorithm. In 15 , authors intro- duced an optimal topology control model considering N 1 constraints in the power systems. In 16 , an umbrella con- straint discovery problem has been introduced where the SCOPF problem is approximated by the linearised AC power f_low. Au- thors in 17 proposed a framework for modeling zonal elec- tricity markets and developed cu t_ting-plane algorithms for con- sidering N 1security conditions. 1.3. Contributions Although various models have been introduced in the lit- erature to model N 1security conditions in diﬀerent ap- plications of power systems, most of them are dependent on properties of components of the system, e.g. generators and loads, which increases the computational burden beyond what is solvable in reasonable time in the context of multi-period ca- pacity expansion models. Moreover, there exist numerous al- ternative approaches with regards to contingency conditions in light of new technologies
__label__energy	1 Accepted for publication, IEEE Communications Magazine Energy Efficient Extreme MIMO: Design Goals and Directions Stefan Wesemann , Jinfeng Du, Member, IEEE , and Harish Viswanatha n, Fellow , IEEE Abstract Ever since the invention of Bell Laboratories Layer Space -Time (BLAST) in mid 1990s, the focus o f MIMO research and development has been largely on pushing the limit of spectral efficiency. While massive MIMO technolo gies laid the foundation of high spectrum efficiency in 5G and beyond , the challenge remains in improving energy efficiency given the increasing complexity of the associated radio systems . With the substantial negative implications of climate change looming ever closer, minimizing energy use is a key dimension of achieving sustainability and is of paramount importance for any future technology . Thus, every aspect of future extreme MIMO syste m design, implementation, and operation will be scrutinized to maximize energy efficiency. An analysis of the massive MIMO 5G radio energy consumption at different loads leads to qualitative energy efficiency design goals for emerging extreme MIMO systems . Following this, we focus on novel operational and component technology innovations to minimize energy consumption. Index Terms massive MIMO, extreme MIMO, energy efficiency I. INTRODUCTION ORLDWIDE numerous companies are racing to achieve carbon neutrality and have established carbon footprint reduction goals. Communications service providers (CSPs) are no exception. To reach that goal, the major focus will be on those aspects of operations that consume the largest amount of energy. Fig. 1 shows the energy consumption for a typical CSP , based on a survey 1 in 2021 of over 30 networks with a mixture of multiple generation s and multiple radio access technologies across different domains of operations. It becomes clear that most of the energy consumption for a CSP is in network operations, among which the radio access network ( RAN ) infrastructure consumes the largest amount of energy. With the current mix of 3G 4G 5G, the radio unit (RU) contributes about 40 of the RAN energy consumption, comparable with the share of air conditioning at base transceiver station ( BTS). With the ongoing rollout of the larger massive MIMO (mMIMO) RUs and the corresponding shift of processing functionality into the RU , the share of RU energy consumption will continue to grow in coming years 3 , 4 . In response to that, 3GPP initiate d a study on network energy savings 2 , which includes the definition of an enhanced BTS energy consumption model , the introduction of Stefan Wesemann is with Nokia Bell Labs, 70469 Stuttgart, Germany (e - mail: stefan.wesemann nokia -bell-labs.com ). Jinfeng Du and Harish Viswanathan are with Nokia Bell Labs, Murray Hill, NJ 07 974, USA (e -mail: jinfeng.du nokia -bell-labs.com , harish.viswanathan nokia -bell-labs.com ). energy consumption as a key performance indicator ( KPI), as well as the study of techniques for improved energy savings at the BTS and user equipment (UE) side. A comprehensive survey on potential energy effic iency features and power consumption models can be found in 3 . Of course, it is not possible to simultaneously achieve peak performance across all metrics which is why the 3GPP study prioritizes idle empty and low medium load scenarios that allow for a flexibl y tradeoff between the energy consumption and the other traditional metrics such as peak data rate, capacity, spectral efficiency, latency, and reliab ility. The purpose of this paper is to identify and expose key operational and component technology innovations that enable the evolution towards the next generation MIMO systems with extremely large arrays (over 1000 antenna elements) , envisioned in new mid band (7 to 20 GHz) spectrum . In Section II, we begin with a brief look at the power consumption in today s mMIMO RUs to understand the potential areas where the next generation MIMO systems could be designed better. We also discuss what a good target for future RUs should be in comparison to 5G. In Section III, we describe the required innovations with a focus on energy efficiency ( EE) aware scheduling, component deactivation, a nd energy saving concepts for the power amplifier (PA). I n Section IV , we quantify the potential energy savings through a high -level model , and finally highlight research areas to further improve network energy efficiency in Section V . Color versions of one or more of the figures in this article are available online at http: ieeexplore.ieee.org W Fig. 1. Distribution of energy consumption for CSP operations, based on data from 1 . 2 Accepted for publication, IEEE Communications Magazine II. ENERGY EFFICIENCY GOALS FOR EXTREME MIMO The peak capacity of a 64 transceiver ( TRX ) 5G mMIMO cell with 100 MHz bandwidth is about 20 times that of an LTE 20 MHz frequency division duplex cell 3 and is 90 more energy efficient in terms of watts per bits sec. In other words, 5G consumes 10 times less power per bits sec which translates to the LTE radio consuming 50 of 5G power at it s peak capacity. The RUs are, however, not always operated at their peak load because the RAN utilization is very uneven. It is estimated 5 that on average up to 70 of radio resources are idle, and 80 of sites only carries about 20 of the total traffic. Moreover , the load varies substantially over the daily 24-hour period, with peak load only occurring for a few hours. Power consumption of t oday s RU s does not diminish automatically with reduced load . Lower loads imply a lower PA output power, which does not fully translate into a reduced PA power consumpti on because the PAs are operated in the high input ( power ) backoff regime where their efficiency is very poor. One commonly implemented feature to improve the PAs energy consumption in low load regime s is micro - discontinuous transmission (µDTX), where sparse data traffic is grouped into high power burst s with low backoff , and thereby creating
__label__energy	A predictive pan-European economic and production dispatch model for the energy transition in the electricity sector Laurent Pagnier Institute of Theoretical Physics Ecole Polytechnique F ed erale de Lausanne Lausanne, Switzerland laurent.pagnier epﬂ.chPhilippe Jacquod School of Engineering University of Applied Sciences of Western Switzerland Sion, Switzerland philippe.jacquod hevs.ch Abstract The energy transition is well underway in most European countries. It has a growing impact on electric power systems as it dramatically modiﬁes the way electricity is pro- duced. To ensure a safe and smooth transition towards a pan- European electricity production dominated by renewable sources, it is of paramount importance to anticipate how production dispatches will evolve, to understand how increased ﬂuctuations in power generations can be absorbed at the pan-European level and to evaluate where the resulting changes in power ﬂows will require signiﬁcant grid upgrades. To address these issues, we construct an aggregated model of the pan-European transmission network which we couple to an optimized, few- parameter dispatch algorithm to obtain time- and geographically- resolved production proﬁles. We demonstrate the validity of our dispatch algorithm by reproducing historical production time series for all power productions in ﬁfteen different European countries. Having calibrated our model in this way, we investigate future production proﬁles at later stages of the energy transition determined by planned future production capacities and the resulting interregional power ﬂows. We ﬁnd that large power ﬂuctuations from increasing penetrations of renewable sources can be absorbed at the pan-European level via signiﬁcantly increased electricity exchanges between different countries. We identify where these increased exchanges will require additional power transfer capacities. We ﬁnally introduce a physically- based economic indicator which allows to predict future ﬁ- nancial conditions in the electricity market. We anticipate new economic opportunities for dam hydroelectricity and pumped- storage plants. Index Terms Electricity market, power generation dispatch, power Transmission. I. I NTRODUCTION Most European countries are now engaged in the energy transition whose ultimate goal is to meet energy demand from human activities solely with renewable energy sources (RES). In its current intermediate stages, the transition steadily increases the penetration of nondispatchable electricity pro- ductions, which results in large uncontrolled ﬂuctuations in power generation. The development of RES in Europe follows from strong public investments and incentives which temporar- ily bias the electricity market. RES have negligible marginal cost and consequently their increasing penetration artiﬁcially lowers electricity prices below production costs for many otherpower generations. Simultaneously, new RES such as solar photovoltaics and wind turbines have undispatchable, strongly ﬂuctuating productions which need to be counterbalanced by controllable, dispatchable productions and electrical energy storage solutions. In the context of the energy transition it is therefore of key importance to understand how RES pene- trations can be increased without jeopardizing the dispatchable productions required by the next level of RES penetration. One of our main interests here is the hydroelectric sector, with its fast dispatchable and fully controllable dam pro- ductions as well as pumped-storage (PS), the only sizeable, mature storage solution to date. Hydroelectricity seems like an ideal partner to RES in the context of the energy transition and one may anticipate that further investments in new PS or higher power dam facilities would signiﬁcantly help to absorb increased production ﬂuctuations from larger RES penetrations. However, somewhat ironically, the current low electricity prices penalize investments in new hydroelectric facilities with today s economic conditions in the European electric sector, RES jeopardize the future of hydroelectricity, arguably one of its main and most reliable future partner. To evaluate scenarios for the energy transition it is therefore of paramount importance to evaluate whether this trend will continue, and if yes, for how long, and determine if and when the precious ﬂexibility of hydroelectric production will be again rewarded. To achieve that, one needs a reliable dispatch model for all types of electric productions as well as a reliable economic indicator. The current electricity market requires tools for ﬁnancial analysis with increased precision to identify the need for further production investments and the returns they will generate. Of particular interest is to try and implement transparent dispatch models at the level of the pan-European grid that rely as weakly as possible on highly volatile political, economical or ﬁnancial predictions. In this manuscript, we develop an integrated physico- economical power dispatch model relying on physical con- straints for electric power productions, on published future production capacity developments and on basic, demand- supply economical laws only. We demonstrate the validity ofarXiv:1706.01666v1 physics.soc-ph 6 Jun 2017 our model by reproducing rather accurately historical 2015 electricity production proﬁles for all power production types in nineteen European countries. We argue that our model will become more and more accurate as the energy transition progresses and investigate European dispatches as well as intercountry exchanges for 2030. This allows us to identify the needs for increased grid capacity, for further storage capacity as well as future rules of engagement for hydroelectric dam power plants. Additionally, we clarify the ﬁnancial conditions prevailing in the electricity market in the forthcoming stages of the energy transition. The main limitation of our approach is related to uncer- tainties in future installed production capacities in European countries, which will depend on more general economic and ﬁnancial conditions in Europe and in the world as well as on future political and societal decisions. However, regardless of these mostly unpredictable conditions, we argue that our dispatch and revenue evaluation model retains its validity, pro- vided production capacities are adapted to their true evolution. In other words, our model qualitatively predicts production dispatches and revenues for given production capacities. Ac- cordingly, feasibility studies should consider various scenarios for future production capacities to investigate which one presents the best operational and ﬁnancial perspectives. The manuscript is organized as follows. In Section II we discuss our aggregated pan-European power grid model, the optimal power ﬂow and the parameters on which our dispatch model is based. In Section III we calibrate these parameters by reproducing historical data for the year 2015. In Section IV , we apply our
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	1 Optimal Power Allocation for a Renewable Energy Source Abhinav Sinha and Prasanna Chaporkar Electrical Engineering Department, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, India. fabhinavsinha,chaporkar g ee.iitb.ac.in Abstract Battery powered transmitters face energy constraint, replenishing their energy by a renewable energy source (like solar or wind power) can lead to longer lifetime. We consider here the problem of ﬁnding the optimal power allocation under random channel conditions for a wireless transmitter, such that rate of information transfer is maximized. Here a rechargeable battery, which is periodically charged by renewable source, is used to power the transmitter. All of above is formulated as a Markov Decision Process. Structural properties like the monotonicity of the optimal value and policy derived in this paper will be of vital importance in understanding the kind of algorithms and approximations needed in real-life scenarios. The effect of curse of dimensionality which is prevalent in Dynamic programming problems can thus be reduced. We show our results under the most general of assumptions. Index Terms Optimal reward function, Monotone op- timal policy, Concavity, Stochastic domination. I. I NTRODUCTION AS we move towards hand-held devices that use wireless transmitters, there is an exceeding need to prolong the lifetime of their batteries without having to manually recharge them on a regular basis. One natural solution to such a problem is to utilize the environment, i.e., have a renewable energy source recharge the battery periodically. This will enable the system to be self- sustaining. List of renewable energy sources include solar power, wind energy, geothermal energy and ocean energy (tidal and wave). Our objective here is to max- imize the throughput of a wireless transmitter enabled with renewable energy source. (A lot of work in this regard has also been done to optimize the performance of the battery powered sensor (see Chang 1 , Hou 2 ) and also in ﬁeld of energy-harvesting (see Yasser 3 ). A recent paper has experimentally shown it possible to power a remote sensor via magnetic resonance without being in contact with the sensor, see Kurs 4 ) The renewable sources of energy are better modelled as random sources due to the lack of control that we have over the source (for example in wind energy, speed of thewinds is not in our control). Thus the key challenges we face are on account of having randomness in recharge energy from the renewable source and randomness in channel state. Also since we have a battery, the maxi- mum energy that can be stored at any point of time is limited. This is quite different in contrast to having a constraint only in terms of average power used. There could be a case for not operating at energy levels close to maximum lest added energy could go to waste. Whereas randomness in channel state could see the optimal policy conserving energy while waiting for a better channel to come. We hope to answer for such trade-off in this paper. We model the problem of maximizing throughput of renewable energy empowered wireless transmitter as an inﬁnite horizon discounted reward Markov Decision Process (MDP). We will use the reward function ( J?), which represents the overall throughput, to compare policies. Optimal policies for us would mean deciding on what power to allocate for every possible value of battery state and channel state (deﬁned together as states ) so as to obtain maximum overall reward ( J?) for every state. Generally MDP or dynamic programming solutions follow the Curse of dimensionality , because the state space tends to be exponential in one or more system parameter. That is the case in our problem as well. Higher complexity solutions are not preferred as it would become a nightmare to implement it. In such a case, having some kind of structure on the solution will have big advantage implementation-wise, not to mention having more analytic tractability of the problem. Our contribution here is to prove the non-decreasing nature of the optimal policy w.r.t states. Our proofs rely only on standard results and techniques used in MDP s. Monotonicity in optimal policy is also important as it tells us about how the structure of the system is impervious to various situations like having different probability distributions on channel state and recharge energy. Once we have proven non-decreasing optimal policy, the search space automatically reduces. Moreover on the basis of this we can also try to get the threshold behaviour (approximately if suitable) which will give usarXiv:1110.2288v1 cs.SY 11 Oct 2011 2 chance to make the implementation in real-time. As far as structural properties go, monotonicity for the optimal policy is one of the most basic results. Hence there has been a plethora of work on the matter. One of the earliest method to prove monotonicity was provided by Serfozo 5 . In his book 6 , Martin Puterman has provided sufﬁcient conditions for the same as well, here however we approach the problem in a different manner (we show results based on properties of J?rather than the Transition Probability Matrix). There has also been a lot of work on optimal policy for rechargeable sensors but with different considerations, in 7 we can ﬁnd a policy which not only takes into account the rate of information transfer but also actual throughput for the queued data. Similarly, in 8 , the authors have dealt with the ﬁnite horizon equivalent and have given an on- line policy which can guarantee fraction of the optimal throughput. After deﬁning the problem we set up the equations for ﬁnding the solution in section II. In section III we begin by proving results about monotonicity (non- decreasing) and concavity of J?and then move on to our main result where we prove that the Optimal Power Allocation function is non-decreasing. Once we have our main structural result, we talk of possible generalizations from this framework. In section IV we present simulation results for veriﬁcation of our result as well as to look at the effects of varying system parameters and conclude by
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	1 Hetero-functional Network Minimum Cost Flow Optimization: A Hydrogen-Natural Gas Network Example Wester C.H. Schoonenberg, Amro M. Farid Abstract Over the past decades, engineering systems have developed as networks of systems that deliver multiple services across multiple domains. This work aims to develop an optimization program for a dynamic, hetero-functional graph theory-based model of an engineering system. The manuscript ﬁrst introduces a general approach to deﬁne a dynamic system model by integrating the device models in the hetero-functional graph theory structural model. To this end, the work leverages Petri net dynamics and the hetero- functional incidence tensor. The respective Petri net-based models are translated into the quadratic program canonical form to ﬁnalize the optimization program. The optimiza- tion program is demonstrated through the application of the program to a hydrogen-natural gas infrastructure test case. Four distinct scenarios are optimized to demonstrate potential synergies or cascading network e ﬀects of policy across infrastructures. This work develops the ﬁrst hetero-functional graph theory-based optimization program and demonstrates that the program can be used to optimize ﬂows across a multi- operand network, transform the operands in the network, store operands over time, analyze the behavior for a quadratic cost function, and implement it for a generic, continuous, large ﬂexible engineering systems of arbitrary topology. I. Introduction Over the past decades, engineering systems have de- veloped as networks of systems that deliver multiple services across multiple domains 1 . Examples of such socio-technical systems are the electriﬁed transportation system 2 4 , the energy-water nexus 5 8 , and the multi-modal energy system 9 . These systems have be- come increasingly interdependent across domains as a result of market forces and the associated pursuit of eﬃciency and cost reductions 10 . For example, the New England electric power grid relies more than ever on natural gas for its electricity generation, whereas the same natural gas is also needed to heat homes in the winter. The interdependence of engineering system services has lead to a need for a better understanding of the holis- tic dynamics and trade-o ﬀs in these systems 1 , 11 . Modeling tools can support the pursuit for more insight into engineering system and their optimal control. These tools need to be quantitative, represent the heterogeneity Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA, Wester.C.H.Schoonenberg.TH Dartmouth.edu Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA, amfarid dartmouth.eduof the modeled system, and be generalizable across domains 12 . Existing optimization methods are generally based on conventional graph theoretic approaches, or on disci- pline and application speciﬁc dynamic models. Mini- mum cost ﬂow programs, for example, are based on networks 13 and consequently fail to address hetero- geneity of function. The multilayer networks community has aimed to expand graph theory to accommodate heterogeneity of function 14 , but Kivela et. al. have identiﬁed eight modeling limitations to the types of systems that can be modeled with multi-layer networks 15 . Consequently, optimization programs based on those foundations inherently impose those same limi- tations. A graph-based approach was also used in the multi-commodity network ﬂow optimization programs 16 18 . This approach does implement a notion of heterogeneity of function, but it does not integrate a speciﬁc description of operand state or storage in its program. Finally, approaches that optimize discipline or application speciﬁc programs lack generalizability 12 . Hetero-functional Graph Theory, however, provides a rigorous modeling method that does not impose the previously mentioned modeling limitations of multilayer networks 10 . Furthermore, hetero-functional graph theory has been used in a variety of engineering system applications, to deﬁne both structural 10 , 19 24 and dynamic models 4 , 25 29 . However, hetero- functional graph theory has not been used as a founda- tion to an optimization program. This work proposes the ﬁrst hetero-functional graph theory-based optimization program. A. Original Contribution This work intends to deﬁne the ﬁrst hetero-functional network minimum cost ﬂow optimization program. This entails that the optimization program balances supply and demand of multiple types of operands at distinct locations over time. The work solves the problem as a linearly constrained, convex quadratic program. The program can be applied to a wide variety of unlike ap- plication domains, as the operands may be transformed, assembled, and disjoined. In the process of developing the hetero-functional network minimum cost ﬂow optimization program, this work also establishes the ﬁrst formal connection betweenarXiv:2104.00504v1 eess.SY 1 Apr 2021 2 the hetero-functional incidence tensor, arc-constant col- ored Petri nets, and the engineering system net. Further- more, it establishes the ﬁrst integration of device models to the system service feasibility matrices that couple the engineering system net dynamics to the operand behavior. Finally, this work demonstrates the hetero-functional network minimum cost ﬂow optimization program by optimizing the ﬁrst hydrogen-natural gas infrastructure test case. B. Outline The background (Sec. II) provides an introduction to Hetero-functional Graph Theory and Petri nets. The for- mer is used as the structural backbone of the model, and the latter is used as a foundation to describe the system s dynamics. Sec. III introduces the hetero-functional graph based dynamic model that incorporates device models. Sec. IV then deﬁnes the hetero-functional network min- imum cost ﬂow optimization program. Sec. V introduces a hydrogen-natural gas networked infrastructure test case as an example engineering system. This test case is modeled and optimized in Sec. VI. Sec. VI presents the hetero-functional graph model, the minimum cost ﬂow optimization program, and the outcomes of the optimization program for the speciﬁed test case. Finally, Sec. VII concludes the work and recaps the main contri- butions of the work to the literature. II. Background Hetero-functional Graph Theory (HFGT) was intro- duced over a decade ago for the study of reconﬁg- urability of manufacturing systems 19 , 30 32 and has since been applied to a number of large ﬂexi- ble engineering systems including electric power grids, water systems, transportation systems, healthcare, and interdependent infrastructures. Schoonenberg et al. 10 have produced a consolidating text on Hetero-functional Graph Theory, which
__label__energy	Energy-Efficient Motion Planner for Legged Robots Alexander Schperberg , Marcel Menner , and Stefano Di Cairano Abstract We propose an online motion planner for legged robot locomotion with the primary objective of achieving energy efficiency. The conceptual idea is to leverage a placement set of footstep positions based on the robot s body position to determine when and how to execute steps. In particular, the proposed planner uses virtual placement sets beneath the hip joints of the legs and executes a step when the foot is outside of such placement set. Furthermore, we propose a parameter design framework that considers both energy-efficiency and robustness measures to optimize the gait by changing the shape of the placement set along with other parameters, such as step height and swing time, as a function of walking speed. We show that the planner produces trajectories that have a low Cost of Transport (CoT) and high robustness measure, and evaluate our approach against model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL) and motion imitation using biological dog motion priors as the reference. Overall, within low to medium velocity range, we show a 50.4 improvement in CoT and improved robustness over model-free RL, our best performing baseline. Finally, we show ability to handle slippery surfaces, gait transitions, and disturbances in simulation and hardware with the Unitree A1 robot. I. I NTRODUCTION Legged robots excel on uneven terrain and in human- centric environments, but their efficiency is hindered by energy losses from foot-ground impacts, which accelerate battery depletion and increase motor heat, reducing operation time. Thus, formulating new energy conservation strate- gies are worthwhile endeavors. Hardware solutions such as Ranger 1 and ANYmal 2 , reduce energy consumption using passive dynamics and mechanical springs. Software- based solutions, the focus of this work, can include various motion planning strategies, including optimization 3 , Rein- forcement Learning (RL) 4 , and vision-based methods 5 . Although energy-efficient rewards or cost terms can be incorporated into the optimization or learning process, it is often challenging to assign significant weight to these terms without encountering local optima issues, where the robot fails to follow the desired velocity commands or avoids movements entirely. Our approach achieves energy-efficient locomotion using a simple, geometry-based footstep planner that constrains motion based on fundamental physical principles. Elliptical placement sets beneath each hip dictate when and where steps occur. The planner s parameters ellipse shape, swing Corresponding author Alexander Schperberg, and Stefano Di Cairano are with Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories (MERL), Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. schperberg, dicairano merl.com Marcel Menner was with Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories (MERL) during part of the work of this paper, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. menner ieee.org Motion Imitation MoCap to Re-targeting Re-targeting to Motion ImitationEnergy -Efficient Motion Planner Model -based Control RL Analytical OrEllipse -based Planner Parameter Selection Robot10 Hz 10 Hz StateBody Footstep referencePD Swing Controller MPC Stance Controller PD Low Level Controller 𝜏motorFoot in ContactFoot not in Contact 𝜏ref Model -free RL Reward function Velocity Tracking Regularization 6 50 Hz 400 Hz 200 Hz(A) (B) (C) 50 Hz 50 HzFig. 1. We compare and evaluate our energy-efficient motion planner (A) (Sec. II), with motion imitation (B) (motion dataset from 6 ) and model- free reinforcement learning (C) baselines. time, and step height are optimized to minimize the Cost of Transport (CoT) and maximize robustness to avoid singular- ity and favor non-slipping configurations. These parameters can be derived offline or adjusted through RL for improved disturbance handling. The proposed planner produces a more natural gait, where the robot moves its feet only when necessary, as defined by the placement set. Although natural gaits can also be achieved by imitating animal motion 6 , to the best of our knowledge, there has not been a clear analysis to evaluate whether imitating motion derived from biological animals is actually more energy- efficient for lower degree of freedom robots. Thus, in this work, we use CoT and robustness measures to compare our method against not only typical model-free RL approaches 7 , but also against motion imitation, where the reference motions are derived from real animal movements (see Fig. 1). Overall, we present the following contributions : 1) An online motion planning framework that naturally determines the gait by minimizing energy consumption using ellipses beneath the hip joints. Simulation and hardware experiments are presented. 2) The ellipses, along with step height and swing time of each leg are designed based on a parameter study that considers CoT and robustness measures. This study is achieved analytically and also through exploration of parameters using RL. Both are compared against each other for efficacy. 3) Our approach is compared against baselines, including model-free RL, and motion imitation using real biolog- ical dog motion priors as the reference.arXiv:2503.06050v1 cs.RO 8 Mar 2025 A. Related Works Motion planning is a fundamental requirement for legged robot locomotion. Several approaches for stable motion have been proposed such as model-based (Sec. I-A.1) and learning-based methods including RL and motion imitation (Sec.I-A.2). Efficacy of these methods are typically evaluated primarily for velocity tracking, and only a few for energy- efficient locomotion (Sec. I-A.3). 1) Model-based: The Raibert controller 8 provides sta- ble trajectories for legged robots that is computationally efficient, but not suitable for rough terrain nor considers energy-efficiency. For rough terrain, optimization-based tech- niques can be used, optimizing for the Zero-Moment Point (ZMP) through the Linear Inverted Pendulum approach 9 . Trajectory Optimization (TO) is employed if footsteps are not specified a priori , which helps expand the robot s feasible workspace, and optimizes over contact forces using more complex centroidal dynamics 10 . However, TO methods are computationally expensive and difficult to apply for online- replanning. 2) Reinforcement Learning and Motion Imitation: To optimize over a high-precision model while being computa- tionally efficient, model-free RL methods have become pop- ular 7 , 11 , such as using a student teacher policy in 7 . However, these methods require extensive hyperparameter tuning, heavy reward engineering, and safety consideration is less relevant as the underlying network output
__label__energy	1 Deep Decarbonization of Multi-Energy Systems: A Carbon-Oriented Framework with Cross Disciplinary Technologies Jian Shi, Dan Wang, Chenye Wu, and Zhu Han Abstract The retirement of unabated coal power plants, the plummeting cost of renewable energy technologies, along with more aggressive public policies and regulatory reforms, are occurring at an unprecedented speed to decarbonize the power and energy systems towards the 2030 and 2050 climate goals. This article aims to establish a carbon-oriented framework to examine the role carbon emission is playing within a power grid that is rapidly transitioning to an integrated multi-energy system. We divide the carbon ﬂows in the multi-energy systems into three stages: carbon allowances initialization allocation, exchanging pricing, and circulation. Then, we discuss how cross- disciplinary technologies, such as game theory, optimization, and machine learning can facilitate the modeling and analysis of the proposed framework. Index Terms Carbon footprint, Energy transition, Deep de- carbonization, Multi-energy systems, Climate change I. I NTRODUCTION Electric power systems are the backbone of the global energy system and account for 25 of worldwide greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Driven by the urgent need to combat climate change 1 , the electric power industry has started to shift its focus towards the near-term urgency of deploy- ingdeep decarbonization to meet the immediate emission reduction goal by 2030 2 while fostering a pathway for a much more profound and deeper zero-emission transformation for long-term climate safety by 2050. The electricity grid is rapidly transitioning to an integrated multi-energy system with the electricity system being the core, renewable energy as the primary energy sources, and supported by storage, hydro, bioenergy, natural gas, responsive demand, and electric vehicles 3 . A low-carbon electric power system will also enable the clean electriﬁcation of transportation, buildings, and industry sectors to support full economy-wide decarbonization. However, there are many challenges to achieve these ambi- tious goals. The existing electric power system is characterized by long-term assets, well-established regulatory structures, and rigid operational conventions. Moving forward, the reinvention of the traditional electricity system to integrate the complex dynamics of multi-energy supply and carriers has brought fun- damental changes for the power community who used to only concern the electrical aspect of the system. The planning, operation, and modeling of the future multi-energy system necessitate stronger and more holistic collaboration across multiple energy sectors to maintain the desired operational characteristics and societal responsibilities, with enhanced energy efﬁciency, ﬂexibility, and affordability. Meanwhile, with decarbonization as the key priority, a carbon-centered systematic framework also becomes necessary to pave the pathway of the low zero-carbon transition of the multi-energy system and develop fundamentally new methods, as well as modiﬁcations and supplements to existing conventions, to meet the 2030 climate goal. This article aims to establish a carbon-oriented framework to Total Carbon Allowance Free Carbon Allowance Free Carbon Allowance Carbon Allowance Auction Carbon Information FlowCarbon Market Trading Energy Producer iLegislator Regulator Electricity Market Trading Multi -energy Market Trading Energy Flow Carbon Footprint Flow Carbon MeterEnergy Producer j Energy Consumer pCarbon Allowance Initialization and Allocation Carbon Allowance Exchange and Pricing Carbon Allowance Circulation Energy Consumer q Carbon Display Fig. 1. Carbon ﬂows through the multi-energy system facilitate the multi-energy system s effective decarbonization and deliver reliable, secure, clean, and cost-effective energy services. In particular, motivated by the tremendous role decarbonization will be playing in the future energy system, we take a different route than the traditional literature, which primarily scoped from the electricity and energy perspective concentrating on one piece of technological solutions. We fo- cus on developing a carbon perspective to analyze and exploit the synergy between the life cycle of carbon emissions in the energy value chain. Speciﬁcally, we divide the carbon ﬂows through the multi-energy system into three stages (see Fig. 1): carbon allowance initiation and allocation ,carbon allowance exchange and pricing , and carbon allowance circulation , based on which interdisciplinary researches, e.g., optimization, game theory, and machine learning, can be per- formed to collectively accelerate the carbon neutral transition of the energy sector as discussed in Section V.arXiv:2210.09432v1 eess.SY 17 Oct 2022 2 II. C ARBON ALLOWANCE INITIATION AND ALLOCATION To establish a cap-and-trade carbon-emission trading (CET) system, the ﬁrst step for a regulator is to initialize the emission cap based on its emission reduction target as well as other policy-level assessment, such as technology readiness, mitigation potential, and costs. Then, the capped amount of carbon allowances, as an asset, has to be assigned to the market participants. The choice of this allocation directly affects how the energy producers participating in the CET react to the carbon price signal and then determine their optimal operational and investment strategies. Therefore, the selection of the correct allocation strategy is the key to establish a well- functioned and competitive market, preserve the appropriate incentives for emission mitigation, and ensure economic ef- ﬁciency. Currently, there existing two general strategies to allocate the carbon allowance: Strategy 1. Free allocation through grandparenting : In this approach, carbon allowances are allocated to energy producers completely free based on historical benchmarks, such as emission intensity levels and power energy generation, as well as an assistance rate . The assistance rate is used as a policy-level tool to scale the level of emissions that receive a free allocation. While the grandparenting approach is straightforward and easy to implement, it draws constant criticism since grandfathering all carbon allowances creates a large windfall proﬁts for energy producers. This is because the marginal cost resulted from the CET system would be ultimately passed to the consumers in the form of higher electricity prices. Therefore, giving away the allowances would hardly impose any additional cost to the energy producers, resulting in increased proﬁts and asset values. Given its draw- backs, free allocation through grandparenting is considered a transitional approach. For instance, it has only been used in the EU ETS in Phase 1 (2005-2007) where almost all the allowances were given out for free and Phase 2 (2008- 2012) where free allocation fell to around 90 of the total allowances. In Phase 3
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Dual Pricing to Prioritize Renewable Energy and Consumer Preferences in Electricity Markets Emilie Jonga, Samuel Chevalierb, Spyros Chatzivasileiadisa, and Shie Mannorc,d,1 aTechnical University of Denmark;bUniversity of Vermont;cTechnion;dJether Energy Research This manuscript was compiled on September 30, 2024 Electricity markets currently fail to incorporate preferences of buy- ers, treating polluting and renewable energy sources as having equal social benefit under a system of uniform clearing prices. Meanwhile, renewable energy is prone to curtailment due to transmission con- straints, forcing grid operators to reduce or shut down renewable energy production despite its availability and need. This paper pro- poses a dual pricing mechanism which allows buyers to bid both their willingness to pay for electricity, and additionally, their prefer- ence for green energy. Designed for use in deregulated electricity markets, this mechanism prioritizes the dispatch of more renewable energy sources according to consumer preferences. Traditional uni- form clearing prices, which treat all energy sources equally, do not reflect the growing share of green energy in the power grid and the environmental values of consumers. By allowing load-serving entities to bid their willingness to pay for renewable energy directly into the clearing market, our proposed framework generates distinct pricing signals for green and black electricity. Electricity markets Locational Marginal Pricing Curtailment Electricity markets give consumers limited influence over selecting the origin of the electricity source powering their homes. In many electricity markets across the world, the mar- ket is cleared at a single uniform market clearing price under the ultimate objective of maximizing social welfare. In the absence of transmission constraints, the price of electricity is thus identical for all sources, regardless of their origins. This market structure is in place because electricity is considered a commodity, i.e., a good that is two-way interchangeable. Once electricity is integrated into the grid, its source becomes indistinguishable to consumers. This pricing mechanism as- sumes that all units of electricity are societally valued at the same price, and all electricity units are treated equally with- out consideration of production methods. In reality, clearing prices might differ at certain locations due to constraints in the network, leading to curtailment of renewable energy sources. When considering transmission constraints, clearing prices can be determined by zonal or nodal pricing structures ( 1). In a nodal pricing structure, as in the US ( 2), clearing prices vary from node to node in a network; in the case of zonal pricing, as in the EU ( 3), prices vary among geographical bidding zones. In this structure, the capacity of intra-zonal transmission lines is neglected, establishing a singular zonal clearing price (1). In this paper, we propose a market framework where con- sumers differentiate between green and black electricity sources through bidding their preference in a dual bid. This ap- proach generates distinct pricing signals for renewable and non-renewable energy, prioritizing renewable sources in the dispatch process in accordance with market preferences. As- suming customers are willing to pay more for green power, this shift will not only promote additional green energy dispatchand deployment, but it will also help align consumer preference with support for a sustainable energy future. Deregulated electricity markets. Over previous decades, the evolution of electricity markets has been driven by liberaliza- tion, efforts to reduce carbon emissions, and rapid techno- logical advancements. Prior to the 1980 s, electrical power systems worldwide did not resemble economically efficient free markets ( 4,5). Instead, vertically integrated monoliths cen- trally controlled the production, transmission, and selling of electrical power. In the face of rising energy costs, countries such as Chile, the UK, and Norway took the unprecedented step of deregulating their electricity markets ( 3,6,7). The purpose of deregulation (also known as liberalization, or re- structuring) was to separate naturally monopolistic processes, such as the management of the transmission grid, from ones which would benefit from competition, such as retail and gen- eration (i.e., the buying and selling of power) ( 6). Today, much of North America, most of Europe, and many other power systems throughout the world are deregulated, meaning efficient, Walrasian wholesale markets ( 8) control the buying and selling of electrical energy. At the core of economically efficient free markets lies the principle of social surplus max- imization. This principle ensures that the market operates at the equilibrium, where marginal social costs are equal to marginal social benefits (9, 10). While deregulation has taken many forms, marginal pricing provides its crucial economic heartbeat ( 11,12). Marginal pric- ing signals, often known as locational marginal prices (LMPs), represent the cost of supplying an additional unit of power at a specific location in the grid at a particular point in time. LMPs form a key concept in electricity markets and determine Significance Statement This paper introduces a framework which allows consumers to place a bid for black and green energy in the day-ahead market. Due to transmission lines, renewable energy often gets curtailed, preventing its full dispatch despite the high demand. By considering network topology and transmission constraints, dispatching energy from black generators can alleviate these bottlenecks, allowing more green energy to flow. Letting con- sumers bid on green energy enables payments to black gener- ators for congestion relief, and thus promotes additional green energy dispatch. Using this framework, we derive prices for green and black energy. S. Chevalier, S. Chatzivasileiadis and S.M. designed research; S. Chevalier and E.J. performed analysis; S. Chevalier and E.J. wrote the paper; S. Chatzivasileiadis and S.M manuscript editing The authors declare no competing interest. 1To whom correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: shie ee.technion.ac.il www.pnas.org cgi doi 10.1073 pnas.XXXXXXXXXX PNAS September 30, 2024 vol. XXX no. XX 1 11arXiv:2409.18766v1 eess.SY 27 Sep 2024 payouts for market participants, offer critical investment indi- cators, and produce a spatially and temporally detailed pricing map based on the electricity grid at various levels of precision. While the market is cleared at a single uniform clearing price when transmission constraints are absent, in reality, the flow of electricity is actually restricted to the capacity of the transmis- sion lines. When these
__label__energy	11th International Exergy, Energy and Environment Symposium (IEEES -11), July 14 -18, 2019, Chennai, India -1- Next Generation Quantum Dots Based Multijunction Photovoltaic s 1 Ankul Prajapati, 2Bade M. H. 1,2 Department of Mechanical Engineering, Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, Surat, Gujarat, 395007, India ankulprajapati7 gmail.com Abstract Photovoltaic cells (PVc) , as an energy provider to the next generation and the biggest source of renewable energy. Since the last decade improving efficiency and reducing the cost of PVc has been a subject of active research among scientists. Promising progress in the field of material science and manufacturing process at Nano -level played a big role. Still , at present there are many challenges befo re photovoltaics for efficient and economic energy. However, Photovoltaics cell based on p -n type homojunction semiconductors with different organic and inorganic materials reported thus for generally suffer from poor performance. According to the ava ilable literature , colloidal quantum dots having immense properties like a wide range of light absorption, easily charge separation and transport. To utilize the maximum part of the spectrum of solar energy reaching to the earth and making effective energy production, here we introduce the complete cell architecture and numerical investigation on quantum dot based solar cells (QDSCs ) with a heterostructure multijunction approach. Successive ionic layer adsorption at different heterogeneous interfaces were analyzed. We majorly focused on improving the electrical and optical properties of the QDSCs achieved by different materials and structural approaches. Here, we report a heterostructure II -Type of band alignment engineering strategy for QDSCs interfaces t hat significantly enhances the efficiency descriptors. In the context of intermediate band solar cell (IBSC) , we investigated optical properties of QDs and strain effects on multilayer PVc and we summarize the strain effect in QDs growth and local energy band bending of conduction band (CB) and valence band (VB). Keywords: Photovoltaics Cell, Renewable Energy, Quantum Dots, Multijunction and Heterostructure . I. Introduction Quantum material always has been actively involved in the advancement of scientific instrument and engineering components 1 -4 . Exploring the power of the single atom has been the topic of an ever - increasing interest among researchers. Promising progress in quantum dots and making the use of extraordinary properties of quantum dots (QD s) 5-9 giving the next generation efficient and compact semiconductor devices 10 -11 . Am ong the energy sector , extensively using the quantum dots for making third generation thin film highly efficient solar cell. As we know that solar cell is playing a big role as a green and renewable energy source 12 . At the same time, there are major troubles like highly expensive and large area requirement for a small amount of energy production. In present , almost the market is dominated by second -generation solar cell based on homo -junction p -n type inorganic materials such as Si and Ge 13,14 . Recently some PV c has been reported based on organic and perovskite materials but less stable. Second generation solar cell is cheaper than first generation single junction crystalline solar cell, but not efficient more than 16 15 . So, what are the requirements for making photovoltaics cell as an economic, efficient and reliable source of energy? There are a number of papers addressin g this problem and proposed different ways of making more efficient solar cells 16-21 . Since last five years major studies are focused on colloidal quantum dots -based PV c. This is only because of their engrossing properties and functionalities, many of w hich depend in a spectacular way on their Nano size 22 . Here we could analyze the size and shape factor of QD s and discuss effects of induced strain in the potential energy of conduction band (CB) and valence band (VB) of the InAs quantum dot. Effective masses of electrons and holes of materials used in PVc have been considered for such electronic parameter changes. After the first successful synthesis of colloidal CdS Se Te QDs by Murray et al 23 it is the most studied QDs due to their exceptional opti cal and electrical properties ever seen in semiconductors. By the time other alloy semiconductor s came in the picture even with more powerful features. Semiconducting colloidal quantum dots (CQDs) such as InAsN, InPN, InAsSb, PbS, GaAs and InAs captured the field of optoelectronics research and quantum technology. Particularly photonics devices such as photovoltaics cell, photo sensors, single photon detector , and quantum circuits. We have been analyzed heterostructure interface between the successive layer of QDs based multijunction solar cell. Though heterojunction between different semiconductors has been extensively studied in the literature 24 -28 . And also, there is enough number of experimental demonstrations of the nobility of heterogeneous technolog y. By using the same methodology scientists already have been developed more compact transistors and integrated circuits 29,30 . Still, in photovoltaics application there is no such commercial and stable devices. There is to some extent but limited to spa ce applications due to their high cost. However, the efficient exploitation of the colloidal quantum dots towards high -performance PV cells, it is important to understand intermediate 11th International Exergy, Energy and Environment Symposium (IEEES -11), July 14 -18, 2019, Chennai, India -2- band of multijunction cell and wetting layer matrix composition on the e volution of QDs shape, size, electronic structure, and optical orientation. In this context, we report on the numerical investigation on electron confinement inside a single quantum dot, electron -hole pair generation, multiple intermediate energy band gap and absorption of the maximum solar spectrum to harness solar photon energy in energy conversion. We have analyzed falling solar ray s angle with respect to vertical horizontal plane and percentage of absorption, results were analyzed and plots for the s ame study have been presented. Recently encountered problems on the material selection for QD SC are also presented and along with proposed solutions. Ultimately this paper aims to actively encourage further investigation and development in QDs based
__label__energy	1 Community Time -Activity Trajectory Modelling based on Markov Chain Simulation and Dirichlet Regression Chen Xia1, Yuqing Hu2, Jianli Chen3 1Department of Architectural Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802, United States of America; e -mail: cpx5037 psu.edu 2Department of Architectural Engineering, The Pennsylvania Sta te University, University Park, PA 16802, United States of America; e -mail: yfh5204 psu.edu 3Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112, United States of America; email: jianli.chen utah.edu Corresponding email: yfh5204 psu.edu Abstract Accurate m odeling of human time-activity trajectory is essential to support community resilience and emergency response strateg ies such as daily energy planning and urban seismic vulnerability assessment . However, e xisting modeling of time-activity trajectory is only driven by socio-demographic information with identical activity trajectories shared among the same group of people and neglect s the influence of the environment . To further improve human time -activity trajectory modeling, t his paper constructs community time -activity trajectory and analyzes how social -demographic and built environment influence people s activity trajectory based on Markov Chains and Dirichlet Regression. We use the New York area as a case study and gather data from American Time Use Survey , Policy Map , and the New York City Energy Water Performance Map to evaluate the proposed method . To validate the regression model, Box s M Test and T -test are performed with 80 data train ing the model and the left 20 as the test sample. The modeling results align well with the actual human behavior trajectories, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed method . It also shows that both social -demographic and built environment factors wi ll significantly impact a community s time -activity trajectory. Specifically : 1) Diversity and median age both have a significant influenc e on the proportion of time people assign to education activity . 2) Transportation condition affects people s activity trajectory in the way that longer commute time decreases the proportion of biological activity (eg. sleeping and eati ng) and increase s people s working time . 3) Residential density affects almost all activities with a significant p -value for all biological needs, household management, working, education, and personal preference . Keywords: Community Time -activity Trajectory; Markov Chain; Dirichlet Regression; socio -demographic and built en vironment 2 1. Introduction People s time -activity trajectory is defined as a sequence of activities performed by individuals at various places during the twenty -four hours of day and night to satisfy biological needs, institutional, personal obligations, and personal preferences (Hägerstrand, 1974; Drummond, 1995 ). While the goal of urban management is driven by a desire to improve human life in settlements (Mattingly, 1994), sudden even ts such as natural disaster s, power outage s, fire hazards, and man -made event s often threaten the fulfillment of those needs, disrupting norm al routines and household comfort. On some occasions, people s time -activity trajectory impacts the vulnerability of people exposed to these events and contributes to how the community responds and assigns resources when unexpected event s hit (Debnath, 2013). For example, as an important clue of personal exposure to air pollution, the time -activity trajectory is often incorporated into the stochastic exposure model to evaluate how urban environment contaminants influence citizen life (Matz , et al, 2014). On the o ther hand, people s activity trajector ies are also closely related to energy consumption in buildings, especially in the residential sector, and thus play an important role in community energy pattern analysis (Karatasou et al, 2013 ). Due to a lack of detailed activity trajectory data, current community energy analysis often uses simplified predefined occupancy values to run the model, which leads to discrepancies between the simulated energy shape and the actual consumed energy. How ever, for occupancy schedules, studies have pointed out that people in different communities hold different schedules, and these differences can greatly influence the final building stock energy simulation results compared with those using national average schedules (Buttitta et al., 2019). This makes accurate modeling of people s time -activity trajectory crucial to support community resilience management and emergency response strategies . Many technologies and methods have been developed to capture time -activity trajector ies, such as Geographic Information Systems (GIS) , social media data mining , and time use survey (Kwan and Neutens 2014; Siła-Nowicka et al, 2016; Allahviranloo et al., 2017 ; Huang,2021 ). Time-use surveys often collect data from computer -assisted telephone interview (CATI) technology to record individual activity in 24 hours . For example, Large -scale time -activity pattern data have been collected in North America, including the Canadian Human Activity Pattern Survey (CHAPS) (Matz et al, 2014), the National Human Activity Pattern Survey (NHAPS) (Klepeis et al, 2001), and American Time Use Survey Data (Hamermesh et al, 2005) conducted in the US. Geographic Information Systems (GIS), and social media data mining collect data from hand held GPS (Global Positioning System) units, GPS -enabled smartphone tracking applications, or social media such as Twitter (Qi Du, 2013). Compared with survey data , modern technology makes it possible to automatically capture geographic locations in rea l-time at detailed spatial scales through digital 3 devices either embedded in vehicles or carried by people on smartphones (Kwan and Neutens 2014). However, some limitations exist, such as data with only location and time cannot report context and cause act ivity ambiguities (Miller, 2021). In more recent years, social media mining is adopted to help gain the exact activity people are doing. However, data collected in this social media -based method only reflect people who used the application at a specific ti me (Lu, 2021). In addition, it also can cause representativeness bias for people who are less likely to use social media (e.g., children and the elderly) , while they can be relatively vulnerable groups. Therefore, many studies built their time -activity trajectories model based on people s time use survey data, which can compensate for limitations in
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	Multi-Agent Learning for Resilient Distributed Control Systems Yuhan Zhao, Craig Rieger, and Quanyan Zhu Abstract Resilience describes a system s ability to function under disturbances and threats. Many critical infrastructures, including smart grids and transportation networks, are large-scale complex systems consisting of many interdependent sub- systems. Decentralized architecture becomes a key resilience design paradigm for large-scale systems. In this book chapter, we present a multi-agent system (MAS) framework for distributed large-scale control systems and discuss the role of MAS learning in resiliency. This chapter introduces the creation of an artiﬁcial intelli- gence (AI) stack in the MAS to provide computational intelligence for subsystems to detect, respond, and recover. We discuss the application of learning methods at the cyber and physical layers of the system. The discussions focus on distributed learning algorithms for subsystems to respond to each other, and game-theoretic learning for them to respond to disturbances and adversarial behaviors. The book chapter presents a case study of distributed renewable energy systems to elaborate on the MAS architecture and its interface with the AI stack. 1 Introduction IndustrialControlSystems(ICSs)arecentraltothecontrolandcommandofcritical infrastructure systems, such as power grids, transportation networks, heavy indus- tries, and distribution systems. An ICS consists of interconnected subsystems of diﬀerent functions, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems for data collection and monitoring; ﬁeld controller systems for physical Yuhan Zhao New York University, Brooklyn, NY 11201, USA e-mail: yhzhao nyu.edu Craig Rieger Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho Falls, ID 83402, USA e-mail: name email.address Quanyan Zhu New York University, Brooklyn, NY 11201, USA e-mail: qz494 nyu.edu 1arXiv:2208.05060v1 eess.SY 9 Aug 2022 2 Y. Zhao, C. Rieger, Q. Zhu plant control. Based on the unit functionality, each subsystem contains Informa- tional Technology (IT) units (constituting IT systems) for information processing, such as task scheduling, and Operational Technology (OT) units (constituting OT systems)forreal-timetaskexecution.Thesubsystemsworkinadistributedbutinter- dependentfashiontoachievetheoverallfunctionalityoftheICSandsupportcritical infrastructure services. However, current ICS environments still contain many legacy systems. The or- ganic incorporation of diﬀerent control system vendors and models over the years exposes a large attack surface to the attacker, making ICSs more vulnerable to ma- licious attacks. With cyber attacks becoming more technologically advanced, many of the systems have become the foremost target of resourceful attacks 1, 2 . Cyber riskscanalsopropagateamongthesubsystemsduetoextensiveinterconnectionand interdependencies, which are not always known or planned for. Unexpected errors can happen in one subsystem when other subsystems are attacked. It is challeng- ing to secure ICS holistically at a system-wide level. In addition to the external attack threats, the internal faults can also propagate over the ICS network, causing cascading errors and exacerbating failures in the system 3, 4 . ThepastfewyearshavewitnessedmanycalamitousattacksonICSsrangingfrom the Stuxnet attack on nuclear power plants in 2010 5 to the ransomware attack on Automotive technology manufacturer, Denso, in 2022 6 . There is an urgent need tostrengthenthesecurityofICSs.MereITsolutionsaloneare,however,insuﬃcient to address the security challenges because they overlook the security of the OT systems. The OT systems control physical units such as sensors and actuators for taskexecution,andtheirperformanceisaﬀectedbythewell-beingofcybersystems aswellasthedisturbancesandinternalfaultsonphysicalunits.TheOTsecurityaims to not only mitigate the malicious attacks from the cyber domain but also stabilize the physical systems. Therefore, a holistic cyber-physical or joint IT-OT security solution is in need to address the ICS security challenges. ICSsecurityischallenging,notonlyduetothecross-layerandsystem-wideneeds but also because of the role of the attacks. Growingly sophisticated attacks make it harder or unfeasible to achieve perfect security, which aims to protect ICSs from any attacks and ensure system performance. Resilience becomes an eﬀective way to further mitigate the security risk. Resilience refers to the system s ability to maintains state awareness and an accepted level of operational normalcy in response to disturbances, including threats of an unexpected and malicious nature 7 . A resilient ICS can eﬀectively respond to an unknown attack to mitigate its impactandmaintainacceptablesystemperformance 8,9,10 .TheresilienceofICSs needs to be achieved in a distributed way since ICSs are large-scale and distributed systems that consist of diﬀerent subsystems. Each functional subsystem requires resilience to maintain its function under external attacks and internal disturbances, which consequently contributes to the resilience of the holistic ICS and the mission criticality. One plausible architecture to achieve it is through the concept of multi- agent resilience (MAR). MARbuildsuponthemulti-agentsystem(MAS)frameworkforlarge-scalecon- trol systems shown in Fig. 1, which describes ICSs at diﬀerent system scales. At Multi-Agent Learning for Resilient Distributed Control Systems 3 the system level, each functional subsystem is treated as an intelligent agent. They interactandcooperatewitheachothertoaccomplishasystem-widemission.Atthe subsystem level, the IT and OT systems in each subsystem act as intelligent agents to manage, control, and coordinate the tasks in the cyber and physical domains. It is important to note that MAR is not a mere replica of one resilient subsystem becauseoftheheterogeneityandinterdependencyinICSs 11 .First,subsystemsare diverseintheirfunctionalityandnetworkstructures,resultingindiﬀerentstrategies anddesignsforsubsystemstoachieveresilience.Second,theextensiveinterconnec- tions among subsystems in ICSs lead to complex interdependencies. A response of one subsystem to mitigate attack consequences may exacerbate the performance of another. Therefore, MAR needs a careful and holistic set of design methodologies 10 . It is challenging to achieve MAR in ICSs because subsystem models and in- terdependencies between subsystems are not always known or planned for. Dis- tributed learning-based mechanisms provide a possible and promising way to reach it. First, the distributed learning-based mechanism uses data analytics for informed decision-making, which is prominent when the exact model and interdependency are increasingly challenging to obtain with the growing of ICS scale and complex- ity. The data for analysis is readily supported and collected by SCADA systems. Second, the learning-based mechanism enables a continuous cognitive capability and creates an adaptive response to threats 12 . A subsystem can constantly up- dateitsdecision-makingmodeltoadapttoevolvingchangesfromattackersthrough learning. Third, the learning-based mechanism allows responding to unanticipated events.Thelearningenableseachsubsystemtodetectandrecognizenewanomalies and faults in time during the operation, which is critical for protecting the system from zero-day attacks. Finally, the learning-based mechanism allows sharing of in- telligenceamongorwithinsubsystemstoimprovetheholisticICSresilience.Instead ofsolelyfocusingonasinglesubsystemresilientdesign,thedistributedlearningalso enables the perception and adaption of one subsystem to others. With the exchange of local knowledge 13, 14, 15, 16 , the subsystems are able to handle the complex and unknown interdependencies and avoid the counter-eﬀect of resilient response interplay between subsystems. Inthischapter,weintroduceamulti-agentlearningframeworktoachieveresilient design for large-scale and distributed ICSs. Compared with traditional ICSs, an AI stack
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Simulating the Smart Grid Manfred P ochacker1, Anita Sobe2, Wilfried Elmenreich1;3 1Institute of Networked and Embedded Systems Lakeside Labs Alpen-Adria Universit at Klagenfurt, Austria 2Institut d informatique, Universit e de Neuch ˆatel, Switzerland 3Complex Systems Engineering, Universit at Passau, Germany manfred.poechacker aau.at, anita.sobe unine.ch, wilfried.elmenreich aau.at Abstract Major challenges for the transition of power sys- tems do not only tackle power electronics but also communication technology, power market economy and user acceptance studies. Simulation is an important research method therein, as it helps to avoid costly failures. A common smart grid simulation platform is still missing. We introduce a conceptual model of agents in multiple ﬂow networks. Flow networks extend the depth of established power ﬂow analysis through use of networks of information ﬂow and ﬁnancial transactions. We use this model as a basis for comparing different power system simulators. Furthermore, a quantitative comparison of simulators is done to facilitate the decision for a suitable tool in comprehensive smart grid simulation. Keywords Smart Grid Simulation, Network Flow I. I NTRODUCTION The power grid has started its transition towards the Smart Grid. This development increases the level of complexity in the energy system 1 , arising from the integration of distributed and renewable energy resources, smart meters, smart appli- ances and electric vehicles (EV), etc. into the electrical grid. For this reason, researchers of different ﬁelds are investigating a variety of topics related to the smart grid, such as dynamic price markets 2 , demand response 3 , smart meters 4 or prediction models 5 . Since the operation of a power grid is usually vital for its users, opportunities for testing novel approaches are very limited. Therefore, to evaluate the impact of new methods for future smart grids, simulation has to be used. Most of the current simulators for smart grid scenarios originate in simulation of electric power systems, control circuits or agent based markets. Recently, development trends towards cross discipline simulations. As the research ﬁeld is broad 6 , it is hard to decide whether a particular simulator ﬁts the whole smart grid system or only parts of it. In this paper we answer the following questions regarding a simulator for the complete smart grid system: 1) What areas should a smart grid simulator cover? 2) Which functionalities do current simulators provide? 3) How congruent are their results? To answer the ﬁrst question, a generic model is introduced which is based on power system simulation and additionally This work is supported by the Carinthian Economic Promotion Fund (KWF) under grant 20214 22935 34445 (Project Smart Microgrid Lab). We would like to thank Lizzie Dawes for proofreading the paper.considers two reliable circumstances. Firstly, the smart grid optimizes energy distribution through the use of more speciﬁc information and secondly, power markets are expected to manage the alignment of power demand with the current production through pricing. The proposed model is based on a combination of an agent- based approach with electrical power ﬂow, ﬂow of data in the ICT network and ﬂow of payments through the ﬁnancial transaction network. After sketching the desirable state of smart grid simulation, we identify scopes of operation for several power system simulators available free of charge. Finally, four of the simulators are quantitatively compared by applying them to a common test case of power ﬂow analysis. This article provides an overview and results of a discussion on simulation design for smart grids and facilitates the decision of which tools and models to be used in future research. The model including agents and ﬂow networks is described in the next section. The third section contains a comparison of ten different simulators for power systems. Four of those are subjects of the quantitative comparison by means of a test- case in the succeeding part of the paper. Finally, we give our conclusion. II. A GENTS IN MULTIPLE FLOW NETWORKS The overall goal of a smart grid is to contribute to greater efﬁciency, reliability and environmental sustainability in en- ergy usage, which requires the best possible alignment of power generation, power consumption and (limited) storage capabilities. Such an alignment impacts user behavior, cultural habits, social norms, power markets, climate conditions and many other factors. We propose a model that combines agent-based simulation and the notion of network ﬂows. A power system can be easily represented by a network model, as in power ﬂow simulation. In the Smart Grid, this model is extended by: The ﬂow of data in the ICT network and the ﬂow of payment through the ﬁnancial transaction network. The agents are decision making entities that interact with each other through the three different types of networks: energy, information and payment ﬂow networks. The following example helps to explain this idea to the reader. Let us imagine a simple smart grid scenario that includes the following entities: A consumer, a grid operator and a smart meter, an electric vehicle (EV) and a switching device.arXiv:1304.2503v1 cs.SY 9 Apr 2013 payment flow consumer producer transmission grid operator HANtraderagents energy flowinformation flowdistribution grid operator generation transmissiondistribution consumptionfiber network PLCLAN WANmobile communicationoperating reserve tradingwholesale power market costumer supply agreement control and measurmentFig. 1. A random smart grid example with agents in three ﬂow networks (energy, information and payment). The nodes (circle for energy, hexagon for information, diamond for payment) in the network modify the ﬂow; they are emitters and or receivers of it. Nodes can have different functions with respect to their locations, e. g., power generation, LAN routing, power market operator. The agents are the decision making entities and control several nodes and are the main interconnection between the different ﬂow networks. Electrical power is transmitted from the smart meter (energized by the grid operator), through the switch into the storage of the EV . Information is transmitted by the consumer who controls the switch and connects the EV . The consumer is informed by the EV about its energy demand, by the smart meter about the current energy price and the switch about its state. Further information ﬂows
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	1 Smart Energy Network Digital Twins: Findings from a UK-Based Demonstrator Project Matthew Deakin, Marta Vanin, Zhong Fan, and Dirk Van Hertem Abstract Digital Twins promise to deliver a step-change in distribution system operations and planning, but there are few real-world examples that explore the challenges of combining imperfect model and measurement data, and then use these as the basis for subsequent analysis. In this work we propose a Digital Twin framework for electrical distribution systems and implement that framework on the Smart Energy Network Demonstrator microgrid in the UK. The data and software implementation are made available open-source, and consist of a network model, power meter measurements, and unbalanced power flow-based algorithms. Measurement and network uncer- tainties are shown to have a substantial impact on the quality of Digital Twin outputs. The potential benefits of a dynamic export limit and voltage control are estimated using the Digital Twin, using simulated measurements to address data quality challenges, with results showing curtailment for an exemplar day could be reduced by 56 . Power meter data and a network model are shown to be necessary for developing algorithms that enable decision-making that is robust to real-world uncertainties, with possibilities and challenges of Digital Twin development clearly demonstrated. Index Terms Digital Twins, Digitalization, Distribution Sys- tem State Estimation, Microgrid. I. I NTRODUCTION The digitalization of energy systems continues to gather pace, with new system architectures promising to increase utilization, improve resilience, and support the societal tran- sition towards net zero. These architectures can incorporate real-time monitoring and dispatch in electricity distribution networks, enabling functionalities such as dynamic operating envelopes, flexibility markets, or peer-to-peer energy markets. Digitalization therefore has a central role in transforming passive distribution networks into an active and responsive distribution systems that can host much higher levels of low carbon technologies. This proliferation of system data is leading both industry and academia to imagine the potential role of Digital Twins in future distribution systems. Whilst definitions of Digital Twins vary substantially between sectors 1 , for distribution systems they typically combine a network model with measurements to support decision making by network operators and planners. For example, in 2 , the authors propose an online method for assigning V olt V Ar controller set points for low voltage (LV) distribution systems. Similarly, a real time Digital-Twin M. Deakin is with Newcastle University, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK. M. Vanin and D. Van Hertem are with the electrical engineering department (ESAT) of KU Leuven, Heverlee, Belgium, and with EnergyVille, Genk, Belgium. Z. Fan is presently with the University of Exeter, Exeter, and was previously academic director of SEND at Keele University, UK. E-mail: matthew.deakin newcastle.ac.uk.based method is demonstrated for a multi-energy network in 3 . Digital twins have also been proposed for power distribution asset management tasks, such as for substation transformers 4 , or condition monitoring of medium voltage (MV) overhead line systems 5 . Industry is also showing a strong appetite for these approaches, with utilities developing increasingly ambitious plans for the development of Digital Twins of their service areas 6 . Despite this strong outlook, publications reporting real-life experiences of developing Digital Twins are uncommon, partly due to researchers limited access to necessary utility data 7 . Typically, a Digital Twin has two steps: a data assimilation stage, reconciling measurement data and system model (e.g., through formulation as a Distribution System State Estimation (DSSE) problem) 8 , 9 ; and an analysis phase, which com- bines the processed data with other computational methods to support operational or planning decision-making tasks. Despite DSSE having been studied for several decades, academic case studies are typically based on synthetic test cases which fail to show few of the complexities of real networks 10 and lack the necessary power and voltage measurement data 11 , 12 . For example, a collection of 128 real LV feeders from the UK were developed in 13 , but a lack of appropriate smart meter data meant that simulated active power profiles had to be provided (if DSSE is required, artificial test cases can be created by recording voltages at measurement buses and adding artificial noise 14 ). In other cases, power flows and voltages from real networks are made public, but usage of this data can be hampered by a lack of corresponding network model and unspecified measurement accuracy 15 . In contrast, there are many methods for supporting decision making through control- or market-based means 16 , 17 , but decision-making algorithms typically do not consider the data assimilation process, and so would not nominally be con- sidered a Digital Twin. Such analysis methods may thus fail to fully exploit available information in the decision making process, or make unrealistic assumptions as to data accuracy and robustness. There is therefore a need for test cases which demonstrate practical imperfections in distribution network and measurement data: we show that these are valuable not only for developing whole Digital Twin applications, but also for DSSE on its own. There is a small but growing literature on experiences with real data for use with Digital Twins or DSSE. Several papers report findings and experiences using real data that cannot be shared (e.g., for privacy or commercial reasons). For example, 18 present the results of DSSE on a Swiss distribution network, highlighting how mismatches betweenarXiv:2311.11997v1 eess.SY 20 Nov 2023 real and digital line parameters cause their state estimator to flag normal current measurements as gross data errors. Groß et al. 19 evaluate the sensitivity of DSSE outputs to the pseudomeasurements required in an MV network. Others explore the impact of measurement configuration and error on DSSE results 20 , or how incorrect transformer impedances affect the development of Digital Twins 11 . Finally, a small number of test cases feature both network data and real power data from the network s smart meters, such as the interconnected LV systems in 21 and the unbalanced MV LV test system of 22 . However, to the authors knowledge, no prior distribution test cases feature
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	XGBoost energy consumption prediction based on multi -system data HVAC Yunlong Li 1 , Wuyi University, Guangdong China, 1316827294 qq.com , Yiming Peng 2 , Wuyi University, Guangdong, China, m 163.com , Dengzheng Zhang 3 , Wuyi University, Guangdong, China, m 163.com , Yingan Mai 4 , Wuyi University, Guangdong, China, 10 qq.com , Zhengrong Ruan 5 , Wuyi University, Guangdong, China, 10 qq.com , Shufen Lian g, Wuyi University, Guangdong, China, 838666003 qq.com Abstract The energy consumption of the HVAC system accounts for a significant portion of the energy consumption of the public building system, and using an eff icient energy consumption prediction model can assist it in carrying out effective energy -saving transformation. Unlike the traditional energy consumption prediction model, this paper extracts features from large data sets using XGBoost, trains them separa tely to obtain multiple models, then fuses them with LightGBM s independent prediction results using MAE, infers energy consumption related variables, and successfully applies this model to the self -developed Internet of Things platform. Index Terms HVAC system , XGBoost , energy consumption prediction , MAE fusion I. INTRODUCTION Human beings pursuits have steadily moved away from sufficient food and clothing and toward a higher quality of life as society has developed. Air conditioning systems with a high energy efficiency ratio are becoming increasingly common as a means of ensu ring human comfort. As a result, entrepreneurs place a premium on building thermal comfort. To maintain a comfortable temperature and humidity level, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems are needed, despite their high energy consumption. Chin a s building energy consumption accounts for approximately 30 of total society energy consumption, with air -conditioning energy consumption accounting for approximately 60 of total building energy consumption, indicating that air -conditioning energy cons umption accounts for nearly 20 of total society energy consumption. Additionally, air conditioning is one of the most energy -intensive components in base stations and communication spaces, accounting for about 45 percent of the communication industry s ov erall energy consumption. At the moment, central air conditioners in public buildings in China suffer from a variety of issues, including random selection, backward dispatching mode, low automation level, and low operation and maintenance level, all of which are critical for energy conservation and consumption reduction. To save energy and reduce air conditioner consumption, the first step is to forecast its energy consumption, identify the primary energy sources, and facilitate energy -saving transformation . According to the available literature, only a few people use machine learning algorithms to forecast HVAC energy consumption. Louis et al. 1 in the United States cluster various energy consumption parameters and calculation time series using a shape -based approach and the k -medoids algorithm and dynamic time warping to determine similarity. Both Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and Support Vector Regression (SVR) models are tested as representative regression algorithms for a variety of predictor sets. T he mean square error is used to evaluate results. Tomasz Szul et al. used the Takagi -Sugeno fuzzy model 4 to forecast the utility of thermally improved building energy efficiency. Gianluca et al. used a building energy model (BEP BEM) to determine the se nsitivity of building environmental parameters, and the results indicated that internal building parameters had a major effect on the building energy consumption page. The second portion of this paper discusses the central air conditioning system and the r elationship between the air conditioning components and energy consumption. Additionally, it briefly presents the self-developed Internet of Things framework for energy -saving control, as well as the networking mode and control concept. The third section describes the database creation process and illustrates it with some sample data. These data are obtained in real time by the Internet of Things network. Additionally, attempt to explore and evaluate the data, including the Pearson correlation coefficient between the data for each attribute and the system s power consumption. Among attributes with a correlation coefficient greater than 0.5, and attributes with a correlation coefficient less than or equal to 0.3, a second -order correlation analysis is perform ed. In the fourth section, we predict XGBoost and LightGBM separately and then combine them with MAE, and the optimal parameter model is solved using cross -validation, a confusion matrix, and a greedy algorithm. II. EXPERIMENTAL SYSTEM AND PLATFORM This experiment used an Internet of Things platform to monitor and control the central air conditioning system of a university teaching building in South China. This air -conditioning system is nearly identical to the conventional design, consisting of three com ponents: a cooling tower, a computer room, and an air handling unit. The difference is that instead of a horse air conditioner, the air handling device is comprised of a three -phase motor and a volute fan. (see fig. 1) Figure 1 Composition of a ir conditioning system in a university in South China A controller is mounted at the terminal to enable automatic cooling control, and the PaaS platform is controlled in the computer room to enable energy - saving control from the refrigeration demand to the refrigeration supply end. Figure 2 depicts the overall system deployment. Figure 2 Platform deployment Fig. 3 Interface diagram of refrigeration system This platform possesses many significant characteristics: 1. It is simple to install: it can be mounted directly on newly installed central air conditioners. 2. Excellent energy -saving effect: energy -efficient central air -conditioning system regulation. 3. The terminal can determine the temperature field in real time: at the terminal, the temperature field can be established using existing real -time sensor data, and the temperature matrix data can be used to change the temperature field for energy savings . 4. The terminal controller should be plug -and-play: in order to deploy the scene, cold source devices such as fans and fans must be controlled, which enables the scene to be easily connected to the platform. Fig. 4 Effect diagram of platform use It is important to create a common carrier for the platform of central
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	On the impact of the global energy policy framework on the development and sustainability of renewable power systems in Sub-Saharan Africa: the case of solar PV Benjamin Pillota, , Marc Musellib, Philippe Poggib, João Batista Diasa aUniversidade do Vale do Rio dos Sinos, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Engenharia Mecânica, Avenida Unisinos 950, 93022-000 São Leopoldo, Brasil bUniversité de Corse, UMR CNRS 6134 SPE, Route des Sanguinaires, 20000 Ajaccio, France Abstract From 1972 and the Meadows report to 1997 and the ratiﬁcation of the Kyoto Protocol by most of the countries in the world, the global energy policy framework has undergone a paradigm shift, as human societies have been leaving aside the sole economic growth to embrace the broader concept of sustainable development . As new electriﬁcation vectors, modern renewable power systems, such as solar PV , have sprung up in the wake of this major mutation and have typically been following an exponential growth since the mid-nineties. Electricity as well as its lack indeed holds a central position within thehuman development apparatus, from highly interconnected centralized power networks reaching 100 of the population in developed countries, to the almost 500 millions people without access to electricity in the multidimensionally poor rural areas of Sub-Saharan Africa. The encounter of the worldwide energy context being changed with each of these speciﬁc social-energy paradigms has ended up considering two strategies for integrating renewable resources in power systems: the grid-connected architecture for meeting the sustainable development requirements, and the rural o -grid electriﬁcation for settling the lack of human development. By means of a historical and cross-sectional overview, we depict here the ins and outs of this protean pattern and, using the case of solar PV , analyze how it has eventually a ected the development and sustainability of renewable power systems in Sub-Saharan Africa. Keywords: Sub-Saharan Africa; solar PV; sustainable development; human development; o -grid electriﬁcation; grid-connected 1. Introduction Energy and human development have been strongly correlated since the beginnings of time, and this assertion has become particularly true with the industrial era. The ﬁrst industrialized countries in history have thus reached the highest level of hu- man development and remain, at the present time, the largest consumers of energy per capita in the world 1, 2 . Unfortunately, this evolution of the primary energy consumption, especially for sustaining the economic growth, which can be regarded as thequantitative part of the human development 3, 4 , has led to 2 main worldwide issues, that is exhaustion of the fossil fuel resources and global warming resulting from greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The ﬁrst oil shock in the seventies has raised the awareness of the developed countries about both these issues, outlined by the 1972 Meadows report about The limits to growth 5 . The need of alternatives to petroleum, of a more e cient energy sector, of long-term energy policies or of an environmental approach to energy has become manifest to them 6 . As a result, they have elaborated an international policy framework in order to meet these new goals, with at ﬁrst the establishment of the International Energy Agency (IEA) in 1974 currently composed of 28 developed countries1plus Turkey 6, 7 . This policy framework has then evolved with the increasing of the realization about the signiﬁcant impact of economic development, along several key dates such as: 1983 and the designation of a World Commission about environment and development; 1987 and the Brundtland report deﬁning the sustainable development concept 8 ; 1992 and the Earth Summit mainly resulting in a convention on climate change 9 ; 1997 and the Kyoto Protocol, the ﬁrst international treaty inciting the industrialized Corresponding author Email addresses: benjaminfp unisinos.br (Benjamin Pillot), marc.muselli univ-corse.fr (Marc Muselli), philippe.poggi univ-corse.fr (Philippe Poggi), joaobd unisinos.br (João Batista Dias) 1According to the United Nations deﬁnition (see section 3.1) Preprint submitted to Elsevier November 1, 2021arXiv:1704.01480v3 physics.soc-ph 2 Jul 2017 countries to ﬁght global warming by reducing their GHG emissions 10 . Accordingly, in order to overcome the world energy issue coupling fuel resource exhaustion and global warming, this speciﬁc policy framework has directly and indirectly been supporting the use of renewable energies for more than 40 years, but more signiﬁcantly since the Kyoto Protocol 10, 11 . Among all types of energy, electricity has more particularly deﬁned modern life as we know it today, and is a very good marker of the level of development populations have reached 12, 13 . Many developing countries currently have really low electriﬁcation rates in comparison with the universal access to electricity of developed countries 14, 15 . Within this context, rural areas of the developing countries are the most a ected, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa2, where more than 80 of the rural dwellers, that is 500 million people, are presently living without any electricity supply 13, 14, 16 . Accordingly, rural electriﬁcation has become a key parameter of the poverty reduction world policy 13, 17 ; among the di erent approaches proposed to meet this goal, the use of renewable power systems has been increasingly considered over the last 30 years 13, 15 . However, in Sub-Saharan Africa, power supply capacity per capita has not increased since the eighties and the electriﬁcation rate still remains dramatically low 3, 14 . On the other hand, many of the renewable systems currently used for o -grid rural electriﬁcation in developing countries also present sustainability and development issues 15, 18 . At the present time, the solar potential is really substantial in Sub-Saharan Africa 19, 20 , which probably explains why, except traditional biomass, use of solar energy in rural areas is both more supported politically 21, 22 and prevailing among ﬁeld applications 23, 24 than any other renewable resources. In the same way, photovoltaics (PV) is also the most promoted technology for electrifying rural people across the sub-continent, especially through solar home (SHS) and solar pico systems (SPS) 23, 24 . However, the development of the sector is still in its beginning in Sub-Saharan Africa, with an
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Offshore Wind Turbine Tower Design and Optimization: A Review and AI-Driven Future Directions João Alves Ribeiro, Bruno Alves Ribeiro, Francisco Pimenta, Sérgio M. O. Tavares, Jie Zhang, Faez Ahmed Graphical Abstract BackgroundReview 1. T ower Design Types Lattice Tubular Steel Concrete HybridJacket TripodSuction BucketMonopile GravityConcrete Slab Semisubmersible Spar-buoy T ension-leg Barge2. Supports Structures Types 5. T ower Design Process Iterative DesignIntegrated Design 9. Software 1.52 0 0.17 0.34 0.50 0.700.851.02 1.191.366. Wind Farm Wake Upstream Turbine Downstream Turbine 10. Standards ABS DNV EN IEC ISO 11. Ref. Turbine IEA 10 MW IEA 15 MW IEA 22 MW13. Optimization T echniques Frequency GASQP PSOMDO TOTime Analysis AlgorithmsTimeLoad TimeLoadStatic FrequencyLoad Iteration 0 Iteration N3. T ower Loads Aerodynamics Wind EarthquakesRNA, ICE HydrodynamicGravitational Acceleration2. Oﬀshore Future Cumulative CapacityLevelized Cost of EnergyOnshore Oﬀshore Fixed-bottom Floating1. Oﬀshore Evolution Oﬀshore T ower Upscaling 2. Review Goals Identify Best PracticesDesign OptimizationSuport UpscalingPaperOptimization Studies Review 1. Review Optimized Components T owers OnshoreT owers Oﬀshore Foundations Oﬀshore (TO) 4. Upscaling Key: T ower3. Oﬀshore Upscaling 7. Monitoring SCADA Accelerometers Strain Gages AI-Driven Future Directions 1. Datasets Design Stress8. Digital T win 1.52 0 0.17 0.34 0.50 0.700.851.02 1.191.36 Real Turbine Digital Model 3. Multiphysics FEA CFDReal TurbineDigital Modal 1.52 0 0.17 0.34 0.50 0.700.851.02 1.191.364. Digital T wins4. T ower Analysis Types Stress Deﬂection Modal Buckling FatigueTimeLoad N CyclesΔStress 3. Review Parameters Software Turbine Loads Method Design ConstrainsDesign VariablesAnalysis Results 1.52 0 0.17 0.34 0.50 0.700.851.02 1.191.36MAX 5. Generative AI Generative DesignInitial Design7. Wind Farms Wake Upstream Turbine Downstream Turbine 6. Material and Manufacturing Material T ower Manufacturing Process2. Surrogate Models Stress 15 seconds12. Economic Aspects Levelized Cost of EnergyT ower CostsCAPEXOPEX Highlights Summarize foundational background on o ffshore wind turbine tower design and optimization. Highlight the tower s role as a crucial element in wind turbine upscaling. Review key studies on optimization design for o ffshore wind turbine towers. Present future AI-driven research directions in o ffshore wind turbine design and optimization.arXiv:2502.02594v1 cs.CE 29 Dec 2024 Offshore Wind Turbine Tower Design and Optimization: A Review and AI-Driven Future Directions João Alves Ribeiroa,b, , Bruno Alves Ribeiroc,d, Francisco Pimentae, Sérgio M. O. Tavaresf, Jie Zhangg, Faez Ahmeda aDepartment of Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA bLAETA-INEGI, Faculty of Engineering, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal cFaculty of Mechanical Engineering, Delft University of Technology, Delft, Netherlands dSchool of Engineering, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA eCONSTRUCT, Faculty of Engineering, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal fTEMA, University of Aveiro, Aveiro, Portugal gDepartment of Mechanical Engineering, and Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, TX, USA Abstract Offshore wind energy leverages the high intensity and consistency of oceanic winds, playing a key role in the transition to renewable energy. As energy demands grow, larger turbines are required to optimize power generation and reduce the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE), which represents the average cost of electricity over a project s lifetime. However, upscaling turbines introduces engineering challenges, particularly in the design of supporting structures, especially towers. These towers must support increased loads while maintaining structural integrity, cost-e fficiency, and transportability, making them essential to o ffshore wind projects success. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the latest advancements, challenges, and future directions driven by Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the design optimization of O ffshore Wind Turbine (OWT) structures, with a focus on towers. It provides an in-depth background on key areas such as design types, load types, analysis methods, design processes, monitoring systems, Digital Twin (DT), software, standards, reference turbines, economic factors, and optimization techniques. Additionally, it includes a state-of-the-art review of optimization studies related to tower design optimization, presenting a detailed examination of turbine, software, loads, optimization method, design variables and constraints, analysis, and findings, motivating future research to refine design approaches for e ffective turbine upscaling and improved e fficiency. Lastly, the paper explores future directions where AI can revolutionize tower design optimization, enabling the development of e fficient, scalable, and sustainable structures. By addressing the upscaling challenges and supporting the growth of renewable energy, this work contributes to shaping the future of o ffshore wind turbine towers and others supporting structures. Keywords: Offshore Wind Turbine, Tower Design Optimization, Artificial Intelligence, Digital Twin, Generative AI, Topology Optimization 1. Introduction The Role of Wind Energy in Sustainable Development: Wind energy is emerging as a cornerstone in the global e ffort to combat climate change, o ffering unique opportunities to drastically reduce carbon emissions, improve public health, and preserve vital resources. By 2050, wind power is expected to account for over 30 of global electricity production, with the potential to reduce CO 2emissions by up to 14,871 million tonnes annually, equivalent to the total emissions of China in 2021 1 . This remarkable impact on emissions is not just a crucial step in mitigating climate change but also brings profound health benefits. For example, in the United States, wind power in 2014 alone resulted in an estimated 2.0 billion USD in health savings due to improved air quality, a figure that could rise to 8.4 billion USD if the displacement of fossil fuel generators prioritized those with higher health impacts 2 . Furthermore, Corresponding author. Email address: jpar mit.edu (João Alves Ribeiro)wind energy s resource e fficiency is unparalleled, requiring only 0.004 liters of water per kilowatt-hour, in stark contrast to the 1.9 liters for oil and 2.3 liters for nuclear power 3 . This significant reduction in water consumption is especially critical in the face of growing global water scarcity. The Role of Wind Turbines in the Energy Revolution: Central to this energy revolution is the wind turbine, a technology that converts the kinetic energy of wind into electrical power and has significantly evolved since its origins in the 18th century 4 . This early prototype laid the foundation for modern wind energy systems, which are now deployed at large scales for commercial electricity generation, both onshore and, more recently, o ffshore. While onshore wind technology is well-developed and widely implemented, o ffshore wind
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	Performance Assessment of Linear Models of Hydropower Plants Stefano Cassano, Fabrizio Sossan PERSEE, Mines ParisTech - PSL Sophia Antipolis, France fstefano.cassano, fabrizio.sossan g mines-paristech.frChristian Landry, Christophe Nicolet Power Vision Engineering Sarl St-Sulpice, Switzerland fchristian.landry, christophe.nicolet g powervision-eng.ch Abstract This paper discusses linearized models of hy- dropower plants (HPPs). First, it reviews state-of-the-art models and discusses their non-linearities, then it proposes suitable linearization strategies for the plant head, discharge, and turbine torque. It is shown that neglecting the dependency of the hydroa- coustic resistance on the discharge leads to a linear formulation of the hydraulic circuits model. For the turbine, a numerical linearization based on a ﬁrst-order Taylor expansion is proposed. Model performance is evaluated for a medium- and a low-head HPP with a Francis and Kaplan turbine, respectively. Perspective applications of these linear models are in the context of efﬁcient model predictive control of HPPs based on convex optimization. Index Terms Hydropower plants, Linear models, Model pre- dictive control. I. I NTRODUCTION Hydropower plants (HPPs) are a key renewable generation asset, covering more than 10 of the electricity needs in Europe 1 . Meanwhile, the increasing proportion of stochastic renewable generation in the power grid causes increasing regulation duties for conventional generation assets, including HPPs. Excessive regulation duties are a concern for HPP oper- ators because they lead to increased wear and tear, ultimately shortening service life and requiring expensive maintenance. The need to counteract these effects has been very recently recognized in funded research projects (e.g., 2 ) and addressed in recent technical literature. E.g., work 3 has shown that medium-head HPPs providing ancillary services incur in larger penstock fatigue, and authors of 4 proposed a method to reduce it. As an alternative to extending regulation duties of HPPs, the use of batteries was proposed in so-called hybrid HPPs to increment the regulation capacity, e.g., 5 . Conventional HPP regulation loops include the droop gover- nors for primary frequency regulation, the speed changer for secondary frequency control, and the turbine governor. The governor parameters are typically tuned to deliver the design performance (e.g., response time and droop) while respecting the plant s static mechanical and power limits. These classical feedback control loops do not model dynamic mechanical loads explicitly, so they are unaware of possible wear and tear effects that excessive regulation causes. Modeling the This research was supported by the European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation program in the context of the Hydropower Extending Power System Flexibility project (XFLEX HYDRO, grant agreement No 857832).mechanical stress is relevant not only for wear and tear but also to design stress-informed splitting policies for the control signal in plants with multiple controllable elements, like hybrid HPPs. An alternative to classical regulation loops to develop in- formed control decisions is model predictive control (MPC), which uses models to formulate constraints explicitly, as for example done in 6 for battery systems using linear prediction models of the battery voltage. In this spirit, this paper proposes linear models of the HPP that can be implemented into an MPC problem to formulate suitable operational constraints of the plant. Two linear models are proposed: a guide vane-to- torque model (key to model the plant s power output) and a guide vane-to-head model, which is essential to characterize mechanical loads and fatigue. By virtue of their linearity, the models allow for a tractable formulation of the MPC problem through convex optimization. These models contribute to ad- vancing the state-of-the-art because typical HPP models for control applications are non-linear transfer-function models (e.g., 7 ). The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II describes HPP models, Section III describes the proposed linearization procedures, Section IV the methods for the performance evaluation, Section V presents the results and Section VI draws the main conclusions. II. M ODELLING HYDROPOWER PLANTS From a modelling perspective, HPPs feature two main components: hydraulic circuits and turbine, as described next. A. Hydraulic circuits The hydraulic circuit of an HPP consists of the low-pressure tunnel, the penstock, and, in medium- and high-head plants, surge tanks. The penstock is the key element for dynamics because it is subject to the elastic behavior of the water. Its model is described next. The model of the surge tank can be derived by applying the same equivalent circuit principles described here and is not addressed in this paper for a reason of space. The penstock is a pipe that guides water running from upstream to the hydraulic turbine. The water s potential difference between the penstock s inlet and outlet is the source for the mechanical power. The penstock is not open to the air and is subject to water pressure. For this reason, waterarXiv:2107.07895v1 eess.SY 16 Jul 2021 elasticity is accounted for in its model. Assuming that the penstock is signiﬁcantly longer than larger, it can be modeled with a one-dimensional approach using partial differential equations (PDEs), e.g., 8 . PDEs are solved numerically by discretizing the penstock (Fig. 1) into a ﬁnite number of elements,n, of lengthdx l n, wherelis the total length of the penstock. Fig. 1. Spatial discretization of a pipe of length L 8 . This model can be conveniently visualized and solved in terms of its equivalent circuit model, where each element in Fig. 1 correspond to a (nonlinear) RLC circuit. The relation- ship between the discharge Qiof each penstock element iand its headhiis: dQi dt R(Qi) L Qi 2 L hi 1 2 2 L hi (1a) dQi 1 dt R(Qi) L Qi 1 2 L hi 1 2 2 L hi 1 (1b) dhi 1 2 dt 1 C (Qi Qi 1): (1c) where the circuit parameters are R(Qi) jQij dx 2g D A2; L dx g A; C g A dx a2;(1d) with as the Darcy-Weisbach friction coefﬁcient, gaccelera- tion of gravity, Apipe cross-section, Dpipe diameter, and a the wave speed in meters per second (m s). The equivalent circuit of a 1-element penstock model is shown in Fig. 3(b) and will be discussed later in combination
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 WHY ARE MEGAPROJECTS, INCLUDING NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS, DELIVERED OVERBUD GET AND LATE? REASONS AND REMEDIES Dr Giorgio Locatelli University of Leeds g.locatelli leeds.ac.uk Please quote this document as: G. Locatelli, 2018, Why are Megaprojects, Including Nuclear P ower Plants, Delivered Overbudget and Late? Reasons and Remedies , Report MIT -ANP -TR-172, Center for Advanced Nuclear Energy Systems (CANES), Massachusett s Institute of Technology 2 1 Introduction to the realm of infrastructure megaprojects 1.1 The Performance of Megaprojects Megaprojects are usually define d as project s with budgets above 1 billion that involve a high level of innovation and complexity (Flyvbjerg et al. 2003; Locatelli, Mancini, et al. 2014; Merrow 2011; Van Wee 2007) . However, already in 1985, (Warrack 1985) noted that 1 billion is not a constraint in defining megaprojects since sometimes a relative approach is needed. In fact, in some contexts, a much smaller project (such as one with a 100 million budget), could constitute a megaproject. Similarly, (Hu et al. 2013) claim that a deterministic cost threshold is not appropriate for all countries, and a relative threshold such as the GDP should be used instead. According to (Brookes Locatelli 2015) Megaprojects are temporary endeavours (i.e. projects) characterized by large investment commitment, vast complexity (especially in organizational terms), and long -lasting impact on the economy, the environment, and society . Megaprojects tend to be massive, indivisible, and have long - term impacts , with investments taking place in waves . Megaprojects effects are felt over many years, especially as auxiliary and complementary additions are made (Miller Lessard 2001) . Public policy strongly affects the performance of public megaprojects . In fact, megaprojects remain under political scrutiny well after the final official decision is made . Decisions made early on can have disastrous effects when abstract political ambitions crystalize in specific technical challenges (Giezen 2012) . The planning a nd delivery of megaprojects involves a large number of organisations and sometimes planning and delivery last longer than the organisation s themselves (Brookes et al. 2017) . Clearly , Nuclear Power Plants (NPP) fit the definition a nd characteristics of megaprojects . Despite their fundamental economic and social role, megaprojects are extrem ely risky (Locatelli Mancini 2010) and are often implemented after a weak (i.e. often sub-optimal) phase of project planning leading to underestimat ions of the costs and overestimat ion of short -term benefit s (Flyvbjerg 2006) . An analysis of data from 318 industrial megaprojects (Merrow 2011) show s that the vast majority of mega projects might be considered a failure when considering adherence to schedule and budget as well as benefi ts in operation. Megaprojects are often affected by budget overruns , delays in different phases of the project development, and their operating results rarely justify , in the short term at least, the implementation of the project (Flyvbjerg et al. 2003)1. Table 1 provide s an overview of large and mega transportation projects , demonstrating how these projects are overbudget all over the world. The cost escalation is common even for long -planned , 1 It is worth noting that authors such as (Dimitriou et al. 2013; Turner Zolin 2012) are quite critical of Flyvbje rg and Merrow s perspective about the benefits of megaprojects, and stress that they need to be assessed with a much longer -term perspective and include a wide range of stakeholders. 3 multi -billion dollar , one-of-a-kind infrastructure projects such as Eurotunnel which increased by 59 alone or 69 considering other related projects (Winch 2013) . Reference Location Sector Infrastructure Sample Size Average Over budget (Flyvbjerg et al. 2016) World Roads 863 20 Hong Kong s Roads 25 11 6 -1 (Cantarelli Flyvbjerg 2015) updating (Flyvbjerg 2008) World Rail 58 45 Fixed Link 33 34 Road 167 20 (Cantarelli Flyvbjerg 2015) Europe Rail 23 34 Fixed Links 15 43 Road 143 22 Total 181 26 North America Rail 19 41 Fixed Links 18 26 Road 24 8 Total 61 24 Other geographical areas Rail 16 65 (Cantarelli et al. 2012) Netherlands Road 37 19 Rail 26 11 Fixed Links 15 22 (Lee 2008) cited in (Cantarelli et al. 2012) South Korea Road 138 11 Rail 16 48 Table 1 Review of Large Transportation projects studies. Extract from (G. Locatelli et al. 2017) 1.2 Reasons for cost escalation overbudget The question of mega projects often being overbudget and late has been addressed by many researchers in the field . Three stand out as major contributors : Bent Flyvbjerg, Edward Merrow and Peter E.D. Love . Their views are summarized in this section. 1.2.1 Perspective of Bent Flyvbjerg Bent Flyvbjerg is the Professor and inaugural Chair of Major Programme Manage ment at Oxford University s Saïd Business School . (Cantarelli et al. 2010) summari zes the most important arguments that have emerged from Flyvbjerg s studies , e.g. (Flyvbjerg 2006; Flyvbjerg Molloy 2011; Flyvbjerg et al. 2016) as follows : Technical: Foreca sting errors including price increase s, poor project design, and incomplete estimates , scope changes, uncertainty , inappropriate organi zational structure etc. Psychological: optimism bias among local officials, the cognitive bias of people, and c autious attitudes towards risk. Deliberate underestimation of costs from: o Vendors contractors: willing ness of vendors to intentionally under estimate the cost and over estimate the benefit in order to sell the projects . 4 o Political: manipulation of forecasts for starting projects for unet hical reasons (e.g. gain consensu s for the next elections) or corruption phenomena in general (see also (G. Locatelli et al. 2017) on this latter point) . Poor financing contract management : poor risk allocation, typically awarding the project (or sub-contracts) the lowest priced turn -key contract allocating the key risks to contractor s that might not be able to properly manage them (see for instance the case of concrete in Olikuoto 3 - (Ruuska et al. 2009) ). Deliberate underestimation s and psychological reasons are key in Flyvbjerg s research. However , there is an important distinction to make,
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER SYSTEMS, SUBMITTED SEPTEMBER 2020 1 Frequency Regulation Model of Bulk Power Systems with Energy Storage N. Soﬁa Guzman E., Member, IEEE, Claudio A. Caizares, Fellow, IEEE, Kankar Bhattacharya, Fellow, IEEE, and Daniel Sohm, Member, IEEE Abstract This paper presents a dynamic Frequency Regulation (FR) model of a large interconnected power system including Energy Storage Systems (ESSs) such as Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESSs) and Flywheel Energy Storage Systems (FESSs), considering all relevant stages in the frequency control process. Communication delays are considered in the transmission of the signals in the FR control loop and ESSs, and their State of Charge (SoC) management model is considered. The system, ESSs and SoC components are modelled in detail from a FR perspective. The model is validated using real system and ESSs data, based on a practical transient stability model of the North American Eastern Interconnection (NAEI), and the results show that the proposed model accurately represents the FR process of a large interconnected power network including ESS, and can be used for long-term FR studies. The impact of communication delays and SoC management of ESS facilities in the Area Control Error (ACE) is also studied and discussed. Index Terms Area Control Error, batteries, communication delays, energy storage, ﬂywheels, frequency regulation, frequency response. I. I NTRODUCTION HIGH levels of penetration of Renewable Energy Sources (RESs) are increasing the operational challenges in power grids. Most of the challenges are linked to the un- certainty associated with RES, which leads to increased gen- eration load mismatches that particularly impact Frequency Regulation (FR) and stability. Energy Storage Systems (ESSs) can help to maintain grid stability and reliability 1 , 2 , providing energy arbitrage, and ancillary services such as FR, among others, while being competitive and economically viable 3 , 4 . In recent years, there has been a signiﬁcant interest in ESSs because of their decreasing costs 5 . Policies around the world are being modiﬁed, and new services are being created to facilitate participation of ESSs in the electricity markets 1 , 6 , 7 . In some instances, Independent System Operators (ISOs) are implementing grid-scale ESS projects to gain experience and evaluate the beneﬁts and performance of different ESS technologies. For instance, the Alternate Tech- nologies for Regulation (ATR) program by the Independent This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible. This work was supported by the NSERC Energy Storage Technology (NEST) Network. The energy storage data was kindly provided by NRStor Inc. N. S. Guzman, C. A. Ca nizares, and K. Bhattacharya are with the Electrical Computer Engineering Dept., University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, N2L 3G1, Canada (e-mail: nguzman uwaterloo.ca; ccanizares uwaterloo.ca; kankar.bhattacharya uwaterloo.ca). D. Sohm is with the IESO of Ontario, Toronto, ON, M5H 1T1, Canada (e-mail: Daniel.Sohm ieso.ca).Electricity System Operator (IESO) of Ontario, which includes a Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) and a Flywheel Energy Storage System (FESS) for FR, was implemented to provide learning opportunities for all stakeholders 7 . The fast power response characteristic of ESSs, such as FESS and BESS, make them particularly suitable to provide fast FR services 4 . Studies focusing on ESSs for the provi- sion of FR examine their contribution in helping conventional generators 8 and RES 9 to meet FR requirements, or provide FR themselves (e.g. 10 ). However, appropriate ESS models for frequency stability studies are lacking, which hampers the impact analysis studies of ESSs for FR from the ISO perspective. The model of a two-area system with ESSs used for FR is presented in 11 from the system viewpoint; however, communication delays and State of Charge (SoC) models of the ESS facilities are not considered, which may lead to unrealistic effects in the Area Control Error (ACE). The study in 12 includes communication delays in the FR process, but ESSs are not included, and while 13 considers the SoC model of ESS, the work does not consider communication delays. Determining the actual and potential beneﬁts of ESSs for FR in an interconnected power system requires a model that represents the overall frequency dynamics of the system and its limitations. The current paper contributes to the on-going efforts of modelling a bulk power system including ESS technologies for FR, as follows: Develop the FR model of a large interconnected power grid, estimating the system model parameters, and vali- dating it with real system information. Develop empirically-based SoC models for FESS and BESS considering the charging and discharging process characteristics, validating them using data from actual facilities. Analyze the impact of communication delays on the ACE and the provision of FR services by ESS facilities. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section II pro- vides a practical overview of frequency control and regulation in power systems, and reviews the ESS technologies used for such services. Section III presents the proposed system and ESS FR models, and Section IV validates the models using real data from the Ontario Power System (OPS), two ESS facilities, and a model of the North American Eastern Interconnection (NAEI). Studies of the impact of communication delays, and the SoC management model of ESS facilities are also presented in Section IV. Finally, Section V highlights the main conclusions and contributions of this paper.arXiv:2009.04573v1 eess.SY 9 Sep 2020 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER SYSTEMS, SUBMITTED SEPTEMBER 2020 2 II. B ACKGROUND REVIEW A. Overview of Frequency Control in Power Systems Frequency is a system-wide characteristic of power grids and should be maintained within speciﬁed limits to ensure the stable and reliable operation of the system. Therefore, appropriate frequency control is essential to maintain the normal operation of the grid. FR services are required in order to compensate for forecast errors, non-linear behaviour of demand between dispatches, and generation load resources that do not follow dispatch instructions. These uncertainties may exceed the contracted capacity of FR resources, which is automatically compensated by the grid inter-ties, thereby deviating the
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	arXiv:2410.15274v3 physics.geo-ph 14 Jan 20251 Physically Guided Deep Unsupervised Inversion for 1D Magnetotelluric Models Paul Goyes-Pe naﬁel Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Umair bin Waheed ,Member, IEEE, Henry Arguello ,Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The global demand for unconventional energy sources such as geothermal energy and white hydrogen requir es new exploration techniques for precise subsurface structu re characterization and potential reservoir identiﬁcation. The Mag- netotelluric (MT) method is crucial for these tasks, provid ing critical information on the distribution of subsurface ele ctrical re- sistivity at depths ranging from hundreds to thousands of me ters. However, traditional iterative algorithm-based inversio n methods require the adjustment of multiple parameters, demanding t ime- consuming and exhaustive tuning processes to achieve prope r cost function minimization. Recent advances have incorpor ated deep learning algorithms for MT inversion, primarily based on supervised learning, and large labeled datasets are needed for training. This work utilizes TensorFlow operations to crea te a differentiable forward MT operator, leveraging its automa tic differentiation capability. Moreover, instead of solving for the subsurface model directly, as classical algorithms perfor m, this paper presents a new deep unsupervised inversion algorithm guided by physics to estimate 1D MT models. Instead of using datasets with the observed data and their respective model a s labels during training, our method employs a differentiabl e modeling operator that physically guides the cost function minimization, making the proposed method solely dependent on observed data. Therefore, the optimization algorithm up - dates the network weights to minimize the data misﬁt. We test the proposed method with ﬁeld and synthetic data at different acquisition frequencies, demonstrating that th e resis- tivity models obtained are more accurate than those calcula ted using other techniques. Our implementation is available at https: github.com PAULGOYES MT guided1DInversion.git . Index Terms 1D magnetotelluric inversion, geophysical parameter estimation, deep unsupervised inversion, elect ro- magnetic method, differentiable physical operator. I. I NTRODUCTION MAGNETOTELLURIC (MT) surveys have emerged as a powerful geophysical technique for probing the elec- trical conductivity structure of the Earth s subsurface. W ith applications ranging from mineral exploration and unconve n- tional energy resources to groundwater mapping and volcano monitoring, MT offers unparalleled insights into subsurfa ce geological features 1 , 2 . MT equipment measures natu- ral variations of the Earth s electromagnetic ﬁelds over a frequency range. By analyzing the impedance tensor related Paul Goyes-Pe naﬁel and H. Arguello are with the Department of Systems Engineering, Universidad Industrial de Santander, Bucara manga 680002, Colombia (e-mail: goyes.yesid gmail.com, henarfu uis.e du.co) Paul Goyes-Pe naﬁel and H. Arguello acknowledge the suppor t provided by the Universidad Industrial de Santander under Project 39 25. Umair bin Waheed is with the Department of Geosciences, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Dhahran 31261, Saudi Arabia (e-mail: umair.waheed kfupm.edu.sa) Umair bin Waheed acknowledges the support provided by the Co llege of Petroleum Engineering and Geosciences (CPG) at KFUPM throu gh Compet- itive Research Grant No. CPG21103.to electric and magnetic ﬁelds, MT surveys provide valu- able information about electrical conductivity distribut ion in the subsurface 3 5 . However, accurately interpreting MT data and deriving robust subsurface resistivity models rem ain challenging tasks, underscoring the importance of inversi on techniques to mitigate uncertainties 3 . In the realm of MT inversion methods, two predominant approaches have traditionally prevailed: iterative solut ions and approximate methods such as Gauss-Newton, inexact Newton 6 , or conjugate gradient algorithms 7 , 8 . These metho ds often necessitate prior information about the subsurface m odel through regularization techniques like initial models or s par- sity constraints, and they typically require tuning numero us parameters 9 . Recent efforts have shifted towards levera ging deep learning techniques to overcome these limitations. Th ese approaches employ supervised learning to extract features and establish relationships between observations and subsurf ace properties from training datasets. Nonetheless, they ofte n encounter challenges associated with the dataset size and the ﬁxed structure of neural networks, which may affect generalization because the models used during training do not represent the domain of data acquired in the ﬁeld. To reduce dataset dependency, 10 have implemented physics- based regularization operators to lessen reliance solely o n the training dataset. In the current state of the art regarding the estimation of subsurface conductivity models from magnetotelluric meas ure- ments, convolutional 11 , residual, and autoencoder neur al networks are predominantly utilized 12 . Additionally, e fforts have been made to expedite the generation of reliable models and their measurements using deep learning to approximate forward modeling and obtain apparent resistivity and phase angle curves 13 . However, the magnetotelluric response o f the subsurface is sensitive to the resistive anomalies that could cause signiﬁcant variations in deep learning-based invers ion models, as they rely on the statistical distribution of thic k- nesses and resistivities used to create the dataset 14 . In this work, we introduce a new approach to MT data inver- sion that overcomes the limitations of traditional deep lea rn- ing methods. We have created a differentiable tensor-based forward modeling operator to eliminate the need for externa l data during inversion. This operator computes electromagn etic impedance, allowing integration into an unsupervised lear ning framework where a neural network approximates the inverse operator. Notably, the cost function relies solely on measu red data, speeding up the computation process and avoiding the use of external data. Our method represents a signiﬁcant advancement in MT inversion, providing a promising path to more reliable and efﬁcient subsurface imaging. 2 II. M ETHODOLOGY A. Forward MT operator MT involves measuring ﬂuctuations in the natural electric (E) and magnetic ( B) ﬁelds in orthogonal directions (i.e., xy oryx) on the Earth s surface in the frequency domain 15 . In the 1D approximation, the relationship between these ﬁelds is described by a 2 2matrix known as the impedance tensor: Z parenleftbigg0Zxy Zxy0 parenrightbigg . It should be noted that impedance is a complex number that depends solely on conductivity and frequency within a
__label__energy	Energy Efficient Placement of ML-Based Services in IoT Networks Abstract The Internet of Things (IoT) is gaining momentum in its quest to bridge the gap between the physical and the digital world. The main goal of the IoT is the creation of smart environments and self-aware things that help to facilitate a variety of services such as smart transport, climate monitoring, e-health, etc. Huge volumes of data are expected to be collected by the connected sensors things, which in traditional cases are processed centrally by large data centers in the core network that will inevitably lead to excessive transportation power consumption as well as added latency overheads. Instead, fog computing has been proposed by researchers from industry and academia to extend the capability of the cloud right to the point where the data is collected at the sensing layer. This way, primitive tasks that can be hosted in IoT sensors do not need to be sent all the way to the cloud for processing. In this paper we propose energy efficient embedding of machine learning (ML) models over a cloud-fog network using a Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) optimization model. We exploit virtualization in our framework to provide service abstraction of Deep Neural Networks (DNN) layers that can be composed into a set of VMs interconnected by virtual links. We constrain the number of VMs that can be processed at the IoT layer and study the impact on the performance of the cloud fog approach. Keywords VM placement, energy efficiency, Internet of Things, cloud-fog networks, MILP, optimization, resource allocation I. INTRODUCTION Machine learning (ML) models have recently changed the basis for most modern-day applications that include object detection, natural language processing, self-driving cars, to name a few. As new technologies emerge, the adoption of ML based models widens. Studies forecast that billions of devices are now connected to the Internet and this figure is anticipated to rise further in the future 1 . Internet of Things (IoT) on its own is projected to generate five quintillions of data everyday day whilst on the other hand driverless cars are reported to generate up to 4TB worth of data every single hour of driving per day 2 . Thus, such an amount of data collected makes ML and Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) particularly attractive for deployment in the edge of the network. Traditionally, the collected data is transported from the edge all the way to the centralized cloud data center at the core network. However, the centralized processing approach introduces several challenges that include privacy, increased network power consumption due to the number of hops and unacceptable latency overheads 3 , 4 . To address the aforementioned challenges, fog computing has been proposed in the literature as a decentralized processing paradigm by exploiting the resources available across the IoT-Cloud continuum. In most cases, the aggregate resources available in the IoT-cloud continuum are overlooked in favor of centralized processing using the cloud data center 5 . Processing, networking, and storage are examples of such resources that can be used to relieve the cloud. Fog allows for cloud-based services to be brought closer to the data source, facilitating effective and fast processing 6 . A fog node can be any device with CPU and networking capabilities 7 . Notwithstanding the benefits of fog computing, there still exists a number of obstacles that need to be addressed before it can reach its full potential. These include Interoperability, fog networking, orchestration and resource provisioning, and computation offloading, which are just some of the issues. We focus on the energy efficient placement of interconnected virtual machines (VMs) that are used to abstract DNN layers 3 . In this work, we extend our previous contribution in 8 by 1) studying the impact of a range of the idle power proportion ratio (IPPR) that is attributed to our application for highly shared networking equipment in the access, metro and core networks. This can also represent the growth of the given application segment considered in the future provided that the idle power consumption is proportional to the size of the application and 2) paying particular attention to the impact of the constraint imposed on the processing capability at the IoT layer such that each IoT node can only process a limited number of VMs. This is a practical constraint imposed by hardware software limitations where certain IoT nodes may not be able to host certain types of ML models. Also, we build on our previous studies in the areas of distributed processing 9 12 , green data center 13 22 and core networks 23 28 , service embedding and virtualization in IoT 29 32 , machine learning and health care systems 33 - 36 and network coding for core networks 33 38 . The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section II describes the proposed cloud fog architecture and the MILP optimization model for the distributed placement of VMs representing DNN layers. Section III provides the results and discussion while Section IV provides the conclusions and future work. II. THE PROPOSED CLOUD FOG NETWORK We assume that the proposed architecture shown in Figure 1 supports full virtualization at the hardware level, which implies that different VMs can be created and deleted on the fly, regardless of the heterogeneity in the specification of the hardware equipment. We also abstract DNN workloads by random virtual topologies that are comprised of several VMs inter-connected by virtual links for data exchange. Figure 1 shows a cloud fog network with four processing layers, namely: IoT, Access Fog Node (AFN), Metro Fog Node (MFN), and the Cloud. In the Edge Network, we have several Mohammed M. Alenazi , Barzan A. Yosuf, Sanaa H. Mohamed, Member, IEEE , Taisir E. H. El -Gorashi, and Jaafar M. H. Elmirghani, Fellow, IEEE School of Electrical Engineering University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom elmmal, b.a.yosuf, s.h.h.mohamed, t.e.h.elgorashi, j.m.h.elmirghani leeds.ac.uk IoT devices distributed in different zones where they can collect different types of data and perform processing using their
__label__energy	Published as: Antonio Spagnuolo, Antonio Petraglia, Carmela Vetromile, Roberto Formosi, Carmine Lubritto, Monitoring and optimization of energy consumption of base transceiver stations , Energy, vol. 81, 1 March 2015, pp. 286-293. ISSN 0360-5442 doi: http: dx.doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2014.12.040 MONITORING AND OPTIMIZATION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF BASE TRANSCEIVER STATIONS Antonio Spagnuolo1 , Antonio Petraglia2, Carmela Vetromile1, Roberto Formosi1, Carmine Lubritto1 1Department of Environmental Science and Technology (DiSTABiF), Second University of Naples Via Vivaldi, 43, I - 81100 Caserta ITALY2Department of Mathematics and Physics (DMF), Second University of Naples Viale A. Lincoln, 54, I - 81100 Caserta ITALY Corresponding author: antonio.spagnuolo unina2.it Highlights Energy consumption and environmental parameters of a base transceiver system have been monitored. Energy consumption is related to the air conditioning functions and to the load of telephone traffic. Energy saving can be obtained by careful choice of cooling parameters and by turn off BS transceivers Energy saving parameters can be estimated by a simulation Monte Carlo method. Keywords Energy consumption; Monitoring; Telecommunication; Radio Base Stations; Sustainable development; Monte Carlo algorithm. Abstract The growth and development of the mobile phone network has led to an increased demand for energy by the telecommunications sector, with a noticeable impact on the environment. Monitoring of energy consumption is a great tool for understanding how to better manage this consumption and find the best strategy to adopt in order to maximize reduction of unnecessary usage of electricity. This paper reports on a monitoring campaign performed on six Base Transceiver Stations (BSs) located central Italy, with different technology, typology and technical characteristics. The study focuses on monitoring energy consumption and environmental parameters (temperature, noise, and global radiation), linking energy consumption with the load of telephone traffic and with the air conditioning functions used to cool the transmission equipment . Moreover, using experimental data collected , it is shown, with a Monte Carlo simulation based on power saving features, how the BS monitored could save energy. Abbreviations BS Base Transceiver Station TRXTransceiver GSMGlobal System for Mobile Communications DCSDigital Cellular System UMTSUniversal Mobile Telecommunications System MRFUMultiple Radio Filter Unit DRFUDouble Radio Filter Unit BCCHBroadcast Control Channel SDCCHStandalone Dedicated Control Channel FCFree Cooling System CDZAir Conditioning System ITUInternational Telecommunication Union ETSIEuropean Telecommunications Standards Institute p. 1 A. Spagnuolo, A. Petraglia, C. Vetromile, R. Formosi, C. Lubritto, Monitoring and optimization of energy consumption of base transceiver stations . TATiming Advance MRMeasurement Report 1. Introduction Telecommunications is one of the sectors where the continuous growth in demand for mobile services and the parallel technological development go hand in hand with regards to energy consumption; it suffice to think that information and communications technology (ICT) is accountable for consumption of about 3 of the world s total electrical energy. By the end of 2030, it is expected that this figure will grow to 1,700 TWh 1 For this reason, the issue of BSs energy management is fundamental for sustainable development of the sector 2 . Previous literature proposes a number of solutions for efficiency and or energy savings. The first set of energy-saving suggestions focused on transmission functions. For example, it was proposed to act on the range of action of the plant (cell zooming) 3 , on the high-efficiency power amplifiers 4 , on the technological improvement of radio frequency units and smart antenna technology 5 , by setting the BSs to stand-by mode 5 6 7 8 , in order to correlate network energy consumption and telephonic traffic load 9 10 . Furthermore, energy consumption can also be reduced by acting on the air-conditioning systems, both via a correct setting of the apparatus system control 11 12 and innovative conditioning systems 13 14 15 . To better implements the energy saving actions and, consequently, improve the environmental impact of the cellular networks, it is necessary to accurately monitor the energy consumed by a BS. The aim of this paper is the study and analysis of energy consumption of a BS, and related environmental parameters, through a monitoring campaign aimed at getting a clear and complete picture of the consumption dynamics of a BS, and the variables that exert more influence on its performance. 2. Characteristics of the base transceiver stations studied The monitoring involved six BSs of the telephone service provider Wind, located in the municipalities of Frosinone, Sora (FR), Cassino (FR), and Pontecorvo (FR) in center Italy. T able 1 reports the technical characteristics of the BS studied: site name, code and size, BS typology (Shelter, Outdoor, and Room), BS technology (GSM DCS UMTS), configuration for each technology (number of TRXs per sector), radio unit type (DRFU, MRFU), number of timeslots for voice, data, BCCH, SDCCH . SITE CODE FR001 SITE CODE FR009 Site name FROSINONE CENTRO Site name PAREDA Station type SHELTER Station type SHELTER Size 7 m2 Size 7 m2 Sampling period24 09 2013 02 10 2013 04 12 2013 11 12 2013Sampling period 17 09 2013 24 09 2013 GSM Config. 2-2-2 GSM Config. 2-2-2 DCS Config. 4-4-6 DCS Config. 4-4-4 UMTS Config. 1-1-1 UMTS Config. 1-1-1 SectorRadiounitTypeTRXDedicatedVoicetimeslotsDedicateddatatimeslotBCCHSDCCHSectorRadiounitTypeTRXDedicatedVoicetimeslotsDedicateddatatimeslotBCCHSDCCH FR001D11MRFU428112FR009D11MRFU428112 FR001D21MRFU428112FR009D21MRFU428112 FR001D32MRFU643113FR009D31MRFU428112 FR001G12MRFU212112FR009G11MRFU212112 FR001G22MRFU212112FR009G21MRFU212112 FR001G32MRFU213112FR009G31MRFU213111 SITE CODE FR039 SITE CODE FR049 Site name SORA CENTRO Site name PONTECORVO Station type ROOM Station type ROOM p. 2 A. Spagnuolo, A. Petraglia, C. Vetromile, R. Formosi, C. Lubritto, Monitoring and optimization of energy consumption of base transceiver stations . Size 15 m2 Size 10 m2 Sampling period 22 10 2013 29 10 2013 Sampling period 30 10 2013 06 11 2013 GSM Config. 2-2-2 GSM Config. 2-2-2 DCS Config. 2-2-2 DCS Config. 2-2-2 UMTS Config. 1-1-1 UMTS Config. 1-1-1 SectorRadioUnitTypeTRXDedicatedVoicetimeslotsDedicateddatatimeslotBCCHSDCCHSectorRadiounitTypeTRXDedicatedVoicetimeslotsDedicateddatatimeslotBCCHSDCCH FR039D11DRFU213111FR049D11MRFU320112 FR039D21DRFU213111FR049D21DRFU213111 FR039D31DRFU213111FR049D31DRFU212112 FR039G12MRFU213111FR049G11MRFU320112 FR039G22MRFU213111FR049G21MRFU212112 FR039G32MRFU213111FR049G31MRFU213111 SITE CODE FR005 SITE CODE FR011 Site name FICUCCIA Site name SAN GIOVANNI Station type OUTDOOR Station type OUTDOOR Size Only cabinet Size Only cabinet Sampling period 02 10 2013 09 10 2013 Sampling period 08 11 2013 15 11 2013 GSM Config. 2-2-2 GSM Config. 4-2-0 DCS Config. 3-2-4 DCS Config. 6-4-0 UMTS Config. 1-1-1 UMTS Config. 1-1-0 SectorRadioUnitTypeTRXDedicatedVoicetimeslotsDedicateddatatimeslotBCCHSDCCHSectorRadiounitTypeTRXDedicatedVoicetimeslotsDedicateddatatimeslotBCCHSDCCH FR005D11MRFU320112FR011D12MRFU644112 FR005D21DRFU212112FR011D22MRFU428112 FR005D31MRFU428112FR011G11MRFU428112 FR005G11DRFU213111FR011G21MRFU212112 FR005G22MRFU213111 FR005G32MRFU212112 Table 1. Technical characteristics of
__label__energy	2019. https: doi.org 10.1021 acs.est.9b04184 1 Open Source Energy System Modeling Using Break-Even Costs to Inform State-Level Policy: A North Carolina Case Study Binghui Li , Jeffrey Thomas, Anderson Rodrigo de Queiroz, Joseph F. DeCarolis Department of Civil, Construction, Environmental Engineering North Carolina State University Campus Box 7908, Raleigh, NC 27695-7908 United States KEY WORDS electric sector; linear programming; sensitivity analysis; state policy ABSTRACT Rigorous model-based analysis can help inform state-level energy and climate policy. In this study, we utilize an open-source energy system optimization model and publicly available datasets to examine future electricity generation, CO2 emissions, and CO2 abatement costs for the North Carolina electric power sector through 2050. Model scenarios include uncertainty in future fuel prices, a hypothetical CO2 cap, and an extended renewable portfolio standard. Across the modeled scenarios, solar photovoltaics represent the most cost-effective low-carbon technology, while trade-offs among carbon constrained scenarios largely involve natural gas and renewables. We also develop a new method to calculate break-even costs, which indicate the capital costs at which different technologies become cost-effective within the model. Significant variation in break-even costs are observed across different technologies and scenarios. We illustrate how break-even costs can be used to inform the development of an extended renewable portfolio standard in North Carolina. Utilizing the break-even costs to calibrate a tax credit for onshore wind, we find that the resultant wind deployment displaces other renewables, and thus has a negligible effect on CO2 emissions. Such insights can provide crucial guidance to policymakers weighing different policy options. This study provides an analytical 2019. https: doi.org 10.1021 acs.est.9b04184 2 framework to conduct similar analyses in other states using an open source model and freely available datasets. INTRODUCTION Many US states have proposed plans to address the climate change threat 1. North Carolina is the ninth most populous state, the fourteenth largest CO2 emitter (2014) 2 in the United States, and the first state in the Southeast to adopt a Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (REPS) 3. The NC REPS requires investor-owned utilities to meet at least 12.5 of their electricity demand through renewable energy resources or energy efficiency measures by 2021 3. Three carve outs, representing minimum shares of specific fuel types, were also defined: 0.2 solar by 2018, 0.2 swine waste by 2020, and 900,000 MWh of poultry waste by 2016 3. The deployment of solar PV has far exceeded the solar carve out, with 4.3 of North Carolina s total generation supplied by solar 4. This high level of solar PV deployment is largely due to the rapid decline in investment costs and favorable contract terms for third party, utility-scale solar under the Public Utilities Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA). However, electric power producers in the state have had difficulty meeting the swine and poultry waste targets, and have repeatedly filed joint petitions to the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) seeking relief and delay 5. These outcomes illustrate the challenge that state policymakers face in developing policy that balances environmental performance, affordability, and stakeholder interests. Debates over energy-related policies and incentives within the state persist, often in the absence of sound, rigorous analysis available to the public. The same is true in many other states. Filling this analytical need to prospectively evaluate policy is now critical since comprehensive federal action to mitigate climate change is not imminent, and responsibility has fallen to states. 2019. https: doi.org 10.1021 acs.est.9b04184 3 Energy system optimization models (ESOMs) represent a self-consistent framework for evaluation that can be used to probe the effects of potential policy while considering future uncertainty. ESOMs are already a crucial tool in long-term energy planning and policy making at regional to national scales, and in recent years numerous models have been developed and applied 6 15. ESOMs can also help planners at the state level 16. A key advantage of such models over simple calculations is their ability to capture dynamic technology interactions across the modeled system, which can have a significant effect on the generation mix over time. Capturing such interactions is also critical when assessing the relative cost-effectiveness of different technologies. The break-even point, sometimes referred as grid parity point 17,18, indicates the point at which the delivered cost of electricity from a given technology reaches a target, often assumed to be the prevailing cost of grid electricity in a particular region. Break-even cost is a useful financial metric because it indicates how close specific technologies are to achieving cost parity and therefore deployment, relative to conventional technologies. The break-even cost is typically determined based on comparisons of specific financial metrics, such as net present value 19, internal rate of return 20, and levelized cost of electricity 21, which have been adopted by a wide range of studies 22 26. However, an increasing number of studies call these metrics into question due to their oversimplified assumptions, lack of uniform standards, and failure to account for grid dynamics that can affect break-even cost 17,21,27 30. These studies suggest break-even costs should be evaluated in a market-based framework that considers the dynamic interactions between technologies with different dispatch characteristics meeting time-varying demand. ESOMs are well-suited to identifying break-even points in a market context, but such analysis has not been a focus in previous work. While ESOMs often incorporate various forms of sensitivity analysis to determine how changes in input parameters affect outputs of interest 31 37, this is the first application of an ESOM to formally identify break-even capital costs. 2019. https: doi.org 10.1021 acs.est.9b04184 4 In this study, we employ an ESOM called Tools for Energy Model Optimization and Analysis (Temoa) 38 to conduct state-level analysis of North Carolina s electric sector through 2050. A key innovation in this work is the technique used in calculating break-even costs, which are directly derived from ESOM solutions, and thus reflect the system-level values of each technology. Such information is particularly useful since state energy policy often aims to incentivize the deployment of technologies that are not currently cost-effective. Information on break-even investment costs that
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	DEVELOPMENT OF USER-FRIENDLY SMART GRID ARCHITECTURE by Swaroop Ranjan Mishra (14104174) DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KANPUR May, 2016arXiv:2108.13677v1 eess.SY 31 Aug 2021 DEVELOPMENT OF USER-FRIENDLY SMART GRID ARCHITECTURE A Thesis Submitted in Partial Ful lment of the Requirements for the Degree of MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY by Swaroop Ranjan Mishra (14104174) DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KANPUR May, 2016 Dedicated to the service of Almighty IIT Kanpur CERTIFICATE It is certi ed that the work contained in this thesis entitled Development of user- friendly smart grid architecture , by Mr. Swaroop Ranjan Mishra (Roll No. 14104174) , has been carried out under my supervision and this work has not been sub- mitted elsewhere for a degree. May, 2016 IIT Kanpur Dr. Laxmidhar Behera, Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur Kanpur, 208016. ii IIT Kanpur ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my thesis guide, Dr. Laxmidhar Behera, for his invaluable guidance. I learnt how to work independently under him. I was a orded a lot of freedom by Dr. Behera, and this helped me gain con dence in my own abilities to think independently and contribute. I shall always remain grateful to him. I have learnt a lot through detailed discussions with Dr. Pawan Goyal. I shall always remain grateful to him for his time and patience. I believe the nal outcome of my research was possible because of the excellent envi- ronment. I sincerely thank all my friends and seniors - Raj, Srinath, Soumya, Chinmay, Chandryee, Shubham, Prakhar, Ayush, Aquib, Aritra, Ajay Pratap, Sonal Dixit, Ni- ladri Das, Samrat Dutta, Anima Majumdar, Ranjith Nair, Vipul Arora, Uday Majumdar, Meher Pritam, Anuj, Komal, Tharun, Vibhu, Sunil, Ravi, Radhe Shyam and Tushar. Special mention must be made of Meher Preetam, he has been in every sense a source of constant help and support specially in making various important decisions. The hour long discussions were not only thoroughly enjoyable but also intellectually stimulating. I shall always remain thankful to him. Swaroop Ranjan Mishra May, 2016 iii IIT Kanpur ABSTRACT As systems like smart grid continue to become complex on a daily basis, emerging issues demand complex solutions that can deal with parameters in multiple domains of engineering. The complex solutions further demand a friendly interface for the users to express their requirements. Cyber-Physical systems deals with the study of techniques that are committed to modeling, simulating and solving the problems that emerge from a multi-disciplinary outlook towards futuristic systems. This thesis is mainly concerned with the development of user-friendly cyber-physical frameworks that can tackle various issues faced by the utilities and users of smart grid through a suitable choice of smart microgrid architecture. The rst contribution in this thesis aims to nd the MIMO state feedback controller with the most stablilizing routing con guration between sensors and actuators while con- sidering two challenges- (i) inclusion of general constraints with respect to sensor commu- nication and actuators;(ii) consideration of individual capacities of these elements. The major contribution of this work is the development of a generalized algorithm to nd op- timal combination of sensors and controllers to be connected so as to make the system highly stable. The proposed algorithm minimizes a suitable cost or enhances reliability while guaranteeing stability using Lyapunov stability theory and linear matrix inequali- ties (LMI). The e cacy of the algorithm has been demonstrated through application on a 4-bus cyber physical smart microgrid system. The second work deals with the experimental validation of proposed algorithm for various range of applications including smart grid. A communication test-bed consisting of wireless nodes has been designed and fabricated to function as the cyber system for the cyber-physical smart microgrid. The developed cyber system has been coupled with a virtual grid running on a server to test our algorithms for optimal sensor-controller con- nection design. The third contribution deals with inclusion of robust and adaptive formulations in the existing framework to improve stability under various criticial conditions like load varia- iv IIT Kanpur tion, delay variation and loss of communcation node. Optimization frameworks have been developed based on a specially designed sensor-controller connection design algorithm for no-delay and non-negligible delay cases to nd controllers pertinent to the mentioned sit- uations. In the fourth work, we developed algorithms to achieve peak load shaving using the existing smart grid framework under physical and communication constraints. Electric de- vices are modelled as real-time scheduling tasks with timing parameters and are scheduled with real time algorithms like Earliest Deadline First, Least Laxity First and Dynamic Rate Priority to balance the peak load by switching the electric devices. The developed generalized algorithm nds optimal combination of sensors and controllers which can make the system highly stable and achieve peak load shaving at the same time as per real-time user requirements. The fth contribution in the thesis aims at improving the interaction of non-technical masses with the complex technological solutions through an intelligent user-friendly plat- form. A cognitive network has been designed based on experiential analysis of learning and its relation to emotion in humans. To help users self-analyze and grow personally, a reverse methodology is used to track user attributes based on the tuning process selected by the user. To demonstrate the user-friendly feature of this network in adding cognition, it has been used for summary nding applications (as a part concept teaching). For any given type of story and characters, the network nds the most appropriate moral from a set of morals. Unlike existing networks which require apriori skills to use and implement own ideas, this network simply requires the skill to express human emotion. v IIT Kanpur vi Contents List of Tables xi List of Figures xiii 1 Introduction 1 1.0.1 Motivation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1.1 Literature Survey . . . .
__label__energy	arXiv:2403.03898v1 eess.SY 6 Mar 20241 Electrical Load Forecasting Model Using Hybrid LSTM Neural Networks with Online Correction Nan Lu, Quan Ouyang, Member, IEEE, Yang Li, Member, IEEE, and Changfu Zou, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Accurate electrical load forecasting is of great im- portance for the efﬁcient operation and control of modern po wer systems. In this work, a hybrid long short-term memory (LSTM )- based model with online correction is developed for day-ahe ad electrical load forecasting. Firstly, four types of featur es are extracted from the original electrical load dataset, inclu ding the historical time series, time index features, historical st atistical features, and similarity features. Then, a hybrid LSTM-bas ed electrical load forecasting model is designed, where an LST M neural network block and a fully-connected neural network b lock are integrated that can model both temporal features (histo rical time series) and non-temporal features (the rest features) . A gradient regularization-based ofﬂine training algorithm and an output layer parameter ﬁne-tuning-based online model corr ection method are developed to enhance the model s capabilities to defend against disturbance and adapt to the latest load data distribution, thus improving the forecasting accuracy. At last, extensive experiments are carried out to validate the effec tiveness of the proposed electrical load forecasting strategy with s uperior accuracy compared with commonly used forecasting models. Index Terms Electrical load forecasting, hybrid LSTM neural network, online model correction, similarity features. I. INTRODUCTION ACCURATE electrical load forecasting plays an indispens- able role in the optimal planning and efﬁcient operation of smart grids. It is a fundamental tool for improving the overall economy and stability of modern power systems while minimizing associated waste and costs. Even a 1 reduction in the average forecast error can translate into hundreds of thousands of dollars in saving 1 . With the rapidly growing market penetration of renewable energy and electric vehicl es, and their integration into the grid, the power system is faci ng increasing volatility and complexity, thus bringing heigh tened challenges to accurate electrical load forecasting. A systematic review of the electrical load forecasting stra te- gies was presented in 2 , where they are mainly classiﬁed into three categories: time series analysis, artiﬁcial neu ral network (ANN), and support vector regression (SVR). Com- monly used time series analysis models include the auto- regressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) 3 , quantil e This work was supported by Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions P ostdoctoral Fellowships under the Horizon Europe programme (Grant No. 1 01067291). (Corresponding authors: Quan Ouyang and Changfu Zou) Nan Lu is with the College of Automation Engineering, Nanjin g University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing 211100, China, an d also with the Faculty of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Univers ity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR 999077, China.(e-mail: nanlu nuaa.edu.cn) Quan Ouyang, Yang Li, and Changfu Zou are with the Depart- ment of Electrical Engineering, Chalmers University of Tec hnology, 41296 Gothenburg, Sweden. (e-mail: quano chalmers.se; ya ngli ieee.org; changfu.zou chalmers.se)regression averaging 4 , etc. Although these models have t he advantages of a simple structure and fast training speed, th ey cannot effectively reﬂect the volatility and nonlinearity in the electrical load time series, resulting in imprecise or unre liable forecasting outcomes. The ANN and SVR models utilize neural networks and classiﬁers, respectively, to capture the high-dimensiona l and complicated nonlinear correlation between the input featu res and output load, thus achieving higher forecasting accurac y 5 . A deep neural network-based short-term load forecasti ng model was proposed in 6 based on the historical load data sequence, where three convolutional layers and three pooli ng layers were employed for feature extraction. In 7 , an SVR- based short-term load forecasting algorithm was designed, where a two-step hybrid parameter optimization method was utilized to improve the forecasting accuracy. As an improvement, some non-temporal features, such as the time index and similarity features, were added to the inp ut for electrical load forecasting. For example, the Euclidea n norm with weighted factors was adopted in 8 as a feature to evaluate the similarity between the forecast day and a searc hed previous day. Then, a one-hour-ahead load forecasting meth od was developed by using the correction of similar day data. Based on the past data sequence and the binary variable that speciﬁes whether it is a working day, Jurado et al. pro- posed a hybrid methodology that combines feature selection based on entropies with soft computing and machine learning approaches 9 . These authors showed that the forecasting errors can be decreased by adding this binary feature to the inputs. A long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network was developed in 10 for short-term load forecast by taking into account the historical data sequence and its correspon ding time of day indices, day of week indices, and binary holiday marks as the inputs. To further enhance prediction accuracy , a hybrid prophet-LSTM model optimized by back-propagation was designed in 11 for short-term electricity load foreca sting. Despite the signiﬁcant progress represented by the above- mentioned approaches, none of them comprehensively incor- porates all the features of historical data sequence, time i ndex, and similarity. This may restrict the forecasting accuracy of the electrical load. Moreover, as the distribution of elect rical load data changes with time, the forecasting error of the aforementioned models, obtained through ofﬂine training w ith historical information, tends to progressively increase. Consid- ering these identiﬁed research gaps, we are therefore stron gly incentivized to develop a hybrid LSTM neural network model with the capability of online correction for accurate day-a head electrical load forecasting. 2 The main contributions of this paper are summarized as: 1) Four types of features are comprehensively incorporated for electrical load forecasting modeling, which include the historical time series, time index features, historica l statistical features, and similarity features. Compared with the methods that only consider part of features, more accurate forecasting results can be achieved. 2) A hybrid LSTM-based electrical load forecasting model is developed here, where an
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	SVD-based Visualisation and Approximation for Time Series Data in Smart Energy Systems Abdolrahman Khoshrou Centrum Wiskunde Informatica Science Park 123, 1098 XG Amsterdam, The Netherlands Email: a.khoshrou cwi.nlAndr e B. Dorsman Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1105, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands Email: a.b.dorsman vu.nlEric J. Pauwels Centrum Wiskunde Informatica Science Park 123, 1098 XG Amsterdam, The Netherlands Email: eric.pauwels cwi.nl Abstract Many time series in smart energy systems exhibit two different timescales. On the one hand there are patterns linked to daily human activities. On the other hand, there are relatively slow trends linked to seasonal variations. In this paper we interpret these time series as matrices, to be visualized as images. This approach has two advantages: First of all, interpreting such time series as images enables one to visually integrate across the image and makes it therefore easier to spot subtle or faint features. Second, the matrix interpretation also grants elucidation of the underlying structure using well- established matrix decomposition methods. We will illustrate both these aspects for data obtained from the German day-ahead market. Index Terms Data analysis, Data preprocessing, Renewable energy sources, Smart grids, Time series analysis. I. I NTRODUCTION In smart energy systems, time series often show two distinct time scales. On the one hand, the data exhibit strong diurnal patterns reﬂecting the daily (or weekly) rhythms of human activity. On the other hand, these relatively fast diurnal patterns are superimposed on slower seasonal variations that have a signiﬁcant impact on the overall evolution of the data. To improve the visualization and make it easier to spot correlations between variables, we propose to analyze these time series as matrices (to be visualized as images) where rows represent hour slots, whereas columns correspond to days. This approach has two advantages. First, visualizing such time series as images allows one to visually integrate across the image and makes it therefore easier to spot subtle or faint features. Second, one can draw on well-established matrix decomposition methods to elucidate underlying structure. In this paper we will discuss both these aspects in the context of data from the day-ahead market. II. D ATA The day-ahead market is an exchange for short-term elec- tricity contracts where the tradings are driven by its partici- pants 1 . Fig. 1 illustrates various collected sets of data for the German day-ahead market in 2016. Day-ahead price and the traded quantity data were collected from 2 . We obtained the day-ahead solar and wind feed-in energy data from 3 . ENTSO-E, the European Network of Transmission System Operators 4 , was the platform for downloading the day-ahead load forecast.Using the above-mentioned data, we will explore the in- ﬂuence of the daily ﬂuctuations of the predicted supply of renewable energy sources (RES), viz. wind and solar feed-in, on the realized electricity price dynamics. III. B ACKGROUND AND LITERATURE REVIEW Recently, the impact of variable generation on the electric- ity market has attracted a lot of attention. Denny et al. 5 explore how increased interconnection between Great Britain and Ireland would facilitate the integration of the wind farms into the power system. Simulation results in this work imply that large increases in the interconnection capacities bring about a decrease in average price and its volatility in Ireland. Furthermore, the growing contribution of intermittent energy sources enforces the transmission grid extensions and ex- panding the cross-border interconnections capacities to ensure the grid stability. K. Schaber, F. Steinke, and T. Hamacher in 6 examine the viability of this approach and its effects, based on the projected wind and solar data until 2020. They conclude that grid expansion is, indeed, helpful in coping with externalities which come with the deployment of renewable energies. The positive outcomes of the substantial deployment of photovoltaic (PV) installations in Germany and Italy, and in particular, their role in daytime peak price drop have been discussed by K. Barnham, K. Knorr, and M. Mazzer in 7 . This work also reports the beneﬁts of the complementary nature of wind and PV resources in the UK. Continuing further with studying the inﬂuence of renewable energy sources (RES) in Germany, a preliminary study on the German day-ahead market has been carried out in 8 . In the reported work, N. Adaduldah, A. Dorsman, GJ. Franx, and P. Pottuijt have taken into account the priority that the German policies assign to renewables over fossil fuels in case of adequate supply. The authors reported the existence of convincing evidence for the impact of RES on the recent emergence of negative prices on the German day-ahead market. Inspired by the work in 9 , the goal of the present work is to determine the inﬂuence of the variability of the wind and solar feed-in on the price variability in the day-ahead market. To this end we focus on the intra-day dynamics of price as characterized by its second derivative, as this peaks for sharp trend reversals.arXiv:1807.10120v1 physics.soc-ph 11 Jul 2018 Fig. 1. An overview of the German day-ahead market in 2016; each data point represents one hour slot. From top to bottom, the price, solar, wind, load, and the traded quantity. IV. M ETHODS : ANALYSING TIMESERIES AS IMAGES A. Motivation An alternative way of visualizing time series with diurnal patterns is as matrices 10 . Fig. 2 shows one year s worth of data represented as a 24 366 matrix image (recall that 2016 is a leap year). An important distinction of this new way of representation is that it allows us to visually integrate patterns across longer time spans, which results in higher discriminatory power. For instance, even a cursory glance at the data image for the traded quantity (Fig. 2, bottom) highlights the fact that there is a signiﬁcant correlation with solar (the eye-like horizontal shape seen in the 2nd panel from the top) as well as wind (the vertical stripes in the 3rd panel Fig. 2. A more informative representation of the German day-ahead market by reformatting the timeseries in Fig. 1 into matrices of
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Optimal Power Flow in Hybrid AC and Multi-terminal HVDC Networks with Offshore Wind Farm Integration Based on Semidefinite Programming Yuhao Zhou Long Zhao Wei-Jen Lee Dept. of Electrical Engineering ESRC in the University of Texas at Arlington Arlington, TX, U.S.A. yuhao.zhou mavs.uta.edu Zhenyuan Zhang Peng Wang School of Mechanical an d Electrical Engineering University of Electronic Science and Technology of China Chengdu, China Abstract Multi-terminal high voltage direct current (MT- HVDC) technology is a promising technology for the offshore wind farm integration, which requires the new control and operation scheme. Therefore, the optimal power flow problem for this system is important to achieve the optimal economic operation. In this paper, convex relaxation model based on semidefinite programming for the MT-HVDC system considering DC DC converters is proposed to solve the optimal power flow problem. A hybrid AC and MT-HVDC system for offshore wind farm integration is used for the test. The simulation results validate the effectiveness of the proposed model and guarantee that the global optimum solution is achieved. Index Terms -- Convex relaxation, multi-terminal high voltage direct current (MT-HVDC), optimal power flow, offshore wind farm, semidefinite programming (SDP). I. NOMENCLATURE AC, DC Index for AC and DC system g Set for generator buses in AC system N Set for buses in the system L Set for transmission lines in the system D Set for buses connected with DC DC converter O Set for AC buses connected with AC DC converters Y Admittance matrix in the system n Bus number of the system en nth basis vector in Rn V Voltage vectors of buses in the system PGk Generator injected power for bus k PDk Load injected power for bus k PGkmin Minimum active power output for generator k PGkmax Maximum active power output for generator k QGkmin Minimum reactive power output for generator k QGkmax Maximum reactive power output for generator k Pkmin Minimum injected active power for bus k Pkmax Maximum injected active power for bus k Qkmin Minimum injected reactive power for bus k Qkmax Maximum injected reactive power for bus k Vkmin Minimum voltage requirement for bus k Vkmax Maximum voltage requirement for bus k Slmmax Maximum apparent power for the line between bus l and m P lmmax Maximum active power for the line between bus l and m ck2, ck1, ck0 Quadratic cost coefficients for generator k gft The conductance of the HVDC line between bus f and t ηk Efficiency for AC DC converter k sk Converter loss at bus k caused by DC DC converter in MT-HVDC system δk, βk, γk Converter loss factors of kth DC DC converter in MT-HVDC system qlm Power in DC DC converter between bus l, m S Converter loss matrix in HVDC system Q Power flow vector for DC DC converters Ad Connection matrix for DC DC converters Pwind_k Injected power in bus k from wind farm λ1, λ2 Largest and second largest eigenvalue of matrix E1,E2 The corresponding eigenvector of λ1 and λ2 II. INTRODUCTION W ind energy has become an important electric power source nowadays due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness 1 . In addition to the onshore wind farms, offshore wind farms also draw a lot of attention because of better wind quality and limited inland sites to build new wind farms 2 . High voltage direct current (HVDC) technology is one of the most favorable options for the integration of offshore wind farms to deliver the power for inland customers 3 . Multi-terminal HVDC grids are emerging as a very promising concept to support the mesh DC networks such as SuperGrid 4 proposed in Europe, and therefore draws a lot of interests from industry and academia. In China, it ranked the 3 rd in terms of total installed capacity of offshore wind turbines, and a new 1160 MW capacity of offshore wind farms are installed in 2017, an increase of 97 over the previous year 5 . Compared with point to point HVDC transmission system, MT-HVDC are based on highly controllable devices such as voltage source converter (VSC) based terminals, which not only could transmit the power but also supporting AC grids to ensure a security and stable operation. This technology has the capability to transform the traditional inverter from grid following to grid forming. However, the MT-HVDC system is more difficult to control. In addition, highly meshed MT-HVDC systems require DC DC stations to interconnect HVDC systems with different nominal voltage or different configuration such that it could control the power flow on a specific HVDC line, which makes them equally important in MT-HVDC grids 6 . Therefore, the optimal power flow (OPF) problem for the new type MT-HVDC grids integrated with offshore wind farms is very critical for future power system operation and control, which could achieve the economic operation while maintain the limits. Non-convex OPF problem has been extensively studied recently to search the global optimum solution. In 7 - 9 , it is proved that the global optimum point could be achieved if the duality gap is zero by applying semidefinite programming (SDP) relaxation. In 10 , a SDP based method is proposed to solve the OPF problem for hybrid systems with DC micro-grids. In 11 , an improved approach to solve the security constraint OPF for MT-HVDC system is proposed, while the method is based on local optimal approach. In 6 , a SDP based method is proposed to solve the OPF problem only for MT-HVDC system, while the interconnection with AC system and offshore wind farm is not studied. In this paper, the global optimum solution of the OPF problem is discussed for the hybrid AC and MT-HVDC system considering offshore wind farm integration. The non-convex OPF problem is transformed to convex problem by applying SDP convex relaxation. The simulation results verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. The organization of this paper is discussed as follows. Section III describes the non-convex form OPF for the hybrid AC and MT-HVDC system, section IV transforms the
__label__energy	Nitrogen -doped graphene based triboelectric nanogenerator s Giuseppina Pace, Michele Serri, Antonio Esau del Rio Castillo, Alberto Ansaldo, Simone Lauciello, Mirko Prato, Lea Pasquale, Jan Luxa, Vlastimil Mazánek , Zdenek Sofer, Francesco Bonaccorso Dr. Giuseppina Pace Institute for Microelectronics and Microsystems - National Research Council (IMM -CNR) Via C. Olivetti 2, 20864, Agrate, Milan, Italy E-mail: giuseppina.pace mdm.imm.cnr.it Dr. Michele Serri, Dr. Alberto Ansaldo, Simone Lauciello, Dr. Mirko Prato, Dr. Lea Pasquale Fondazione Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT) , Via Morego, 30, 16136, Genova, Italy Dr. Michele Serri current address: XNEXT srl, via Valtorta, 48, 20127, Milan, Italy Prof. Zdenek Sofer, Dr. Jan Luxa, Dr. Vlastimil Mazánek Dept. of Inorganic Chemistry, University of Chemistry and Technology Prague Technická 5, 166 28 Praha 6, Czech Republic Dr. Francesco Bonaccorso , Dr. Antonio Esau del Rio Castillo BeDimensional S.p.A , Via Lungotorrente Secca 3d, 16163, Genova, Italy Email: f.bonaccorso bedimensional.it Keywords: 2D-materials, triboelectric nanogenerators, doped graphene , flexible electronics , quantum capacitance Abstract Harvesting all sources of available clean energy is an essential strategy to contribute to heal ing current depend ence on non-sustainable energy sources. Recently, triboelectric nanogenerators (TENGs) have gained visibility as new mechanical energy harvester offering a valid alternative to batteries , being particularly suitable for portable devices. Here , the increase d capacitance of a few -layer graphene -based electrode is obtained by incorporating nitrogen -doped graphene (N -graphene), enabl ing a 3-fold enhancement in TENG s power output. The dependence of TENGs performance on the electronic properties of different N-graphene types, varying in the doping concentration and in the relative content of N-pyridinic and N -graphitic sites is investigated . These sites have different electron affinities , and synergistically contribute to the variation of the capacitive and resistive properties of N-graphene and consequently, TENG performance . It is demonstrated that the power enhancement of the TENG occurs when th e N-graphene, an n- semiconductor , is interfaced between the positive triboelectric material and the electrode, while a deterioration of the electrical performance is observed when it is placed at the interface with the negative triboelectric material. This behavior is explained in terms of the dependence of N- graphene quantum capacitance on the electrode chemical potential which shift s according to the opposite polarization induced at the two electrode s upon triboelectrification. 1. Introduction In the last decade , a new technology , based on the triboelectric nanogenerators (TENGs) , 1,2 has raised in the field of energy harvesting , allow ing to convert the g reen mechanical energy available in the environment into electrical power . At the base of TENG working mechanism is the electron transfer occurring upon friction between an electropositive and an electronegative triboelectric material (tribomaterial) , which determines the establishment of a triboelectrification field. In a TENG each material is interfaced with an electrode and the two are connected through and exte rnal circuit. Due to the induction field generated at the electrodes caused by the triboelectrification field, a current flow through the external circuit, the Maxwell displacement current . 3,4 TENGs allow to efficiently convert the mechanical energy originated from the human body, 5 wind 6 and sea waves motion, 7 into clean and sustainable electrical power . 2,8 Due to the light weight, low cost and sustainable nature of materials employed in TENG , they represent s a valid alternative to current mechanical harvester s, 4 providing high efficiency even at low frequency . 9 12 Strategies implemented so far for improving TENGs power output , aim at increasing either the tribomaterial dielectric response 13 and or the density of the accumulated triboelectric charges . 14 The introduction of high dielectric con stant 15 18 and ferroelectric layers 19 21 at the interface between the tribomaterial and the electrode , has been proved to increase the TENG performance . This is explained by a combination of an enhanced electrode polarization due to an increased dielectric response of the tribomaterial, and a charge b locking effect , which reduce s the quenching of the triboelectric c harges by impeding their drift from the tribomaterial to the underneath electrode. 14,22 24 The triboelectrification charge density can be effectively enhanced by increasing the surface area, with the use of nanostructured 25 and nanopatterned 26 tribomaterials. Another promising approach is the introduction of charge trapping additives 27 29 and charge -transporting layer s 30 within the insulating tribomaterial . These electroactive additives allow scaveng ing the triboelectric charges accumulate d at the surface of the tribomaterial, by creating charge storage sites more deeply embedded in the triboelectric layer . 14 2D materials are between the most effective electroactive additives , that are embedded in TENGs either as triboelectric layers 31 or in the form of polymeric composite in the tribomaterial. 32 However, it is still not clear which specific properties make them good electroactive additive s in TENGs. Though many materials fall under the same umbrella of 2D materials, their properties are different: h -BN is an insulator, 33 black phosphorous 34 and reduced graphene oxide (RGO) 35,36 are mostly conductive, while MoS 2 20,28,37 39 is an intrinsic semiconduct or 40 and M Xenes 41,42 can be tuned by chemical design over a large range of electrical properties . It is therefore still difficult to identify which are the intrinsic properties of different 2D-materials contributing to the enhancement of the TENGs performances , making it hard to design and select more efficient materials . We recently demonstrated that the selection of electrodes with a large difference in work function can add a built-in potential increasing the TENG open -circuit voltage . 43 We also anticipated that few-layers graphene (FLG) 44,45 electrode s further boost TENG s performance with respect to highly conductive electrode s, such as gold , thanks to their high surface area. While other works have addressed the role of polymeric interfacial layers, our aim here is to assess the role played by the chemical and electronic properties of 2D additive in
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Power Converter Topologies for Electrolyzer Applications to Enable Electric Grid Services Bang L. H. Nguyen , , Mayank Panwar , Rob Hovsapian , Kazunori Nagasawa , and Tuyen V. Vu National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO, USA ECE Department, Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY, USA bang.nguyen nrel.gov, mayank.panwar nrel.gov, rob.hovsapian nrel.gov, kazunori.nagasawa nrel.gov, tvu clarkson.edu Abstract Hydrogen electrolyzers, with their operational flexibility, can be configured as smart dynamic loads which can provide grid services and facilitate the integration of more renewable energy sources into the electrical grid. However, to enable this ability, the electrolyzer system should be able to control both active and reactive power in coordination with the low-level controller of the electrolyzer via the power electronics system interface between the utility grid and electrolyzer. This paper discusses power converter topologies and the control scheme of this power electronics interface for electrolyzer applications to enable electricity grid services. For the sake of unity, in this paper, we consider the power converter system interfacing the utility grid at the line-to-line root mean square (RMS) value of 480 VAC 60 Hz and supplying to the 3500 A-750 kW PEM electrolyzer stack. Index Terms dynamic loads, grid services, hydrogen electrolyzer, power electronics interface . I. INTRODUCTION Hydrogen electrolysis is a mature technology that produces hydrogen from water using electricity. There are two main electrolyzer technologies, the alkaline and proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzer. Although alkaline technology is mature with low manufacturing cost, it is slow at start-up and has problems of corrosion, and requires complicated maintenance, whereas PEM has a fast response and requires less maintenance 1 . Hydrogen itself can be used in various areas includes petroleum, ammonia, transportation, and power generation with a fuel cell or internal combustion engine. Additionally, hydrogen is considered an attractive and versatile form of energy storage owing to its low environmental impact 2 . Excess power can be converted and stored in form of hydrogen that can be used later in other industrial processes, transportation, and power generation. Hydrogen electrolyzers can be integrated with renewable and distributed energy resources (DER) to reduce the impact of variability on power quality and stability of the electric grid 3 . Furthermore, the electrolyzer can be operated as a smart dynamic load and provide grid services includes end-user energy management, transmission, and distribution system support, integration of renewables, and wholesale electric market services 4 . In 5 , the authors propose a generic front- end controller for electrolyzer to enhance the grid flexibility. The work in 6 analyzes the 25 MW PEM electrolyzer installed in Belgium in providing grid services such as grid balance and frequency containment reserve. The potential of frequency support from an electrolyzer is investigated in 7 with a 1-MW pilot electrolyzer installed in the Netherlands. In 8 , the hydrogen energy system is considered as a grid management tool to stabilize the grid frequency in the Hawaiian island grid. In 9 , the integration between the distribution grid and electrolyzer fleet is employed to mitigate the impact of solar PV penetration by reducing overvoltage and voltage fluctuations. To effectively serve the growing use and validation of electrolyzer applications, power electronics interfaces play a key role considering the control-ability and more efficient energy conversion. However, some of the existing literature has reviewed the power converter for electrolyzer itself 10 - 12 but the ability to support electricity grid services has not been considered. To fill the gap, this paper provides a discussion on the power converter topologies and control schemes for the power electronic interface for electrolyzer to enable grid services. The paper is organized as follows. Section II reviews the electrolyzer model and the baseline requirements of a power electronic interface between grid and electrolyzer stack. Section III reviews and compares the different power converter topologies and control schemes that satisfy the above necessities. In Section IV, electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulation results using the power system emulator from Typhoon Hardware-in-Loop (HIL) Inc. are provided to support the analysis. The paper is concluded in Section V. II. POWER ELECTRONICS INTERFACES FOR ELECTROLYZERS This section discusses the equivalent model of the electrolyzer stack and the base requirements for a power electronics interface that allow the electrolyzer system to serve grid services. In this paper, we only focus on the PEM electrolyzers, since its fast response is suitable for grid services. A. PEM Electrolyzer Modeling The PEM electrolyzer can be model as an electrical circuit shown in Fig. 1 13 , where the temperature and anode and cathode pressures of the electrolyzer stack are assumed to be controlled at an appropriate level through low-level controls of the electrolyzer system (including stack, balance-of-plant, and hydrogen storage). The circuit parameters represent the reversible voltage ( Vint) of the cathode, the membrane resistance (Rint), the double-layer capacitive effect (C 1), and the activation losses of the cathode R1). For the stack of 3 cells, these parameters are given values of Vint 4.38 V, Rint 0.088 Ω, R1 0.035 Ω and C1 37.26 F with the operating current range from 0-50 A 14 . Considering only the base control purposes at the steady-state, the equivalent circuit can be reduced to the reversible voltage ( Vint) and the internal resistance ( Rtotal). For the electrolyzer stack of 3500 A 750 kW, we could use the stack of 70 modules in parallel with 35 cells in series for one module. The equivalent reversible voltage for this stack can be established at 145.5 V and the total resistance is 0.02 Ω. Therefore, for the steady-state operation without considering the start-up process, when the electrolyzer current of the stack ranges from 0 to 3550 A, the stack voltage would change from 145.5 V to 215.5 V. B. Power Electronics Interface Baseline Requirements For a sake of unity, we consider the power converter system interfacing the utility grid at the line-to-line RMS value of 480 VAC and supplying it to the 3500 A-750 kW electrolyzer stack. A representative configuration used in this paper with the baseline requirements of
__label__energy	Lignocellulosic Biomass: A Sustainable Platform for Production of B io-Based Chemicals and Polymers Furkan H. Isikgo ra, C. Remzi Becer b a Department of Chemistry, Boğaziçi University, Bebek, 34342 İstanbul, Turkey b School of Engineering and Materials Science, Queen Mary University of London, Mile End Road, E1 4NS London, United Kingdom The demand for petroleum dependent chemicals and materials has been increasing despite the dwindling of their fossil resources. As the dead -end of petroleum based industry has started to appear , today s mode rn society has to implement alternative energy and valuable chemical resources immediately . Owing to the importance of lignocellulosic biomass for being the most abundant and bio -renewable biomass on earth, this crit ical review provides insights into the potential of lignocellulosic biomass as an alternative platform to fossil resources. In this context, over 20 0 value -added compounds, which can be derived from lignocellulosic biomass by using various treatment method s, are presented with their references. Lignocellulosic biomass based polymers and their commercial importance are also reported mainly in the frame of these comp ounds. The review article aims to draw the map of lignocellulosic biomass derived chemicals an d their synthetic polymers, and to reveal the scope of this map in today s modern chemical and polymer industry. 1. Introduction. Modern industrial polymerization technologies make it possible to produce versatile polymers with highly tunable properties a nd broad range of applications. Depending on request, t oday s polymers can be stiff or soft, transparent or opaque, conducting or insulating, permeable or impermeable, stable or degradable . Some indispensable and irreplaceable applications of them include high strenght fibers , composite s, construction materials, light weight engineering plastics, coatings, adhesives, packaging materials, microelectronics and novel materials for biomedical applications such as drug delivery systems, implants, membranes for a rtificial kidneys and water purification, dental fillings, wound dressing and artificial hearts. No other class of materials can have such diverse properties and versatile applicability . This means that modern life would be impossible without polymeric materials since they provide high quality of life for all humankind.1-3 On the other hand, i ndustrial production of a wide range of chemicals and synthetic polymers heavily relies on fossil resources.4 Dwindling of these resources together with their frightening environmental effects, such as global warming and littering problems, have started to threaten the future of polymer industry. In the early part of the 19th centu ry, Henry Ford suggested that the implementation of a bio -based economy is a logical and necessary option for the growth of any civilization. This implementation was postponed because oil has always been cheaper than any other commodity products. However, the competitive price advantage of fossil fuels during the last century has disappeared.5 After crossing the oil production peak, the dwindling of fossil resources will further boost the oil price and this situa tion will drastically impact the cost -effectiveness and competiveness of polymers. More importantly, mass consumption of petroleum based materials leaves devastating environmental problems , which are lethal threats for human beings. Growing concerns regard ing these issues have inevitably started to enforce our society demanding for sustainable and green products. The European Union has already approved laws for the reduction of environmentally abusive materials and started to put gre ater efforts in finding eco-friendly materials based on natural resources. Hence, alternative solutions are sought to develop sustainable polymers from renewable natural resources for decreasing the current dependence on fossil resources and fixing the production rate of CO 2 to its consumption rate.6, 7 Bioma ss and biomass derived materials have been pointed out to be one of the most pro mising alternatives.8, 9 These materials are generated from available atmospheric CO 2, water and sunlight throug h biological photosynthesis. Therefore, biomass has been considered to be the only sustainable source of organic carbon in earth and the perfect equivalent to petroleum for the production of fuels and fine chemicals with net zero carbon emission.10, 11 In this context, lignocellulosic biomass, which is the most abundant and bio -renewable biomass on earth,10 has a critical importance. Many studies have shown that lignocellulosic biomass holds enormous potential for sustainable production of chemicals and 2 fuels. Besides, it is a renewable feedstock in abundance and is avaliable worldwide.12, 13 Lignocellulosic biomass has been projected as an abundant carbon -neutral renewable source , which can decrease CO 2 emissions and atmospheric po llution. T hus, it is a promising alter native to limit crude oil , which can be utilized to produce biofuels, biomolecules and biomaterials.14-16 Furthermore, the major component of lignocellulosic biomass ; cellulose, is considered as the strongest potential candidate for the substitution of petroleum -based polymers owing to its ecofriendly properties like renewability, bio -compatibility and bio - degradability.7 Sustainability of the production of fuels and chemicals from biomass, on the other hand, has been greatly debated. As an example, there are cricital concerns regarding the sustainability of current production of bioethanol , which relies on starch an d sugar crops. The limited supply of such crops can lead to competition with food production.17 Lignocellulosic feedstocks have crucial advantages over other biomass supplies in this manner because they are the non -edible portion of the plant and therefore, they do not interfere with food supplies.18 Moreover; forestry, agricultura l and agro -industrial lignocellulosic wastes are accumulated every year in large quantities. Disposal of these wastes to the soil or landfill causes serious environmental problems, however; they could be utilized for the production of a number of value add ed products.19 From economic point of view , lignocellulosic biomass can be produced quickly and at lower cost than other agriculturally important biofuels feedstocks such as corn sta rch, soybeans and sugar cane. I t is also significantly cheaper than crude oil.20 On the other hand, the development of the conversi on of lignocellulosic biomass to fine chemicals and polymers still remains a big challange.10 Lignocellulose has evolved to resist degradation. T his inherent property
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	1 The role of living laboratories in unlocking the potential of low-carbon energy technologies on the UK s journey to net-zero Zhong Fana, Jun Caob, Taskin Jamalc, Chris Fogwilld, Cephas Samendea, Zoe Robinsona, Fiona Polacke, Mark Ormeroda, Sharon Georgea, Adam Peacocka, David Healeya a Keele University b Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology (LIST) c Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology , Dhaka, Bangladesh d Cranfield University e University of Hull Abstract: Together, renewable energy s ystems (RES) and distributed and digiti zed smart energy networks (SEN) provide opportunities to maximi ze energy efficiency, reduce transmission losses and drive down greenh ouse gas emissions. Yet, such integrated Smart Local Energy Systems (SLES) are in the early stages of development and the technologies that underpin them lack testbeds where they can be developed and tested in a real -world environment . Here we demonstrate the potential role of one of Europe s largest at scale multi -vector Sm art Energy Network Demonstrator - SEND, developed with in a living laboratory setting that provides a blueprint for the development and testing of low -carbon energy technologies on the UK s journey to net zero. 1. Introducti on Climate change continues to be a daunting challenge and is the single biggest global threat to ever face us. Globally, the energy sector (electricity, heat and transport ) is responsible for about 73 of greenh ouse gas emissions driving climate change 1 . The UK government has set a commitment to achieve net -zero carbon emissions by 2050 with decarboni sation of the energy sector as priority area s 2 . Thus, urgent development and deployment of low -carbon energy technologies are needed in the energy sector to: (i) better understand how we generate, distribute and consume energy and (ii) reduce our relian ce on fossil fuels to significantly reduce the greenhouse gas emissions. Although the deployment of low -carbon energy technologies is key to mitigating climate change, uncertainty about a technology s performance and the integration of different technologies is an important barrier to adoption 3 . Living labs can overcome such barriers by providing a real -world environment where such new low -carbon energy technologies and interventions can be researched, developed and trialled prior to larger -scale deployment. Without evidence that the low -carbon energy technologies being deployed have been tested and evaluat ed using a real -world environment, it is unlikely that the public and other stakeholders will risk ado pting and supporting them 4 . Further, the power in the living l ab approach in a higher education setting, is in the potential to maximise the impact acr oss both the education and research missions of a university, as well as in the benefits of working with business es and wider community with multiple stakeholders represented in discussions from the outset. In this comment article, we demonstrate the pote ntial role of Keele University s Smart Energy Network Demonstrator - SEND, developed within a living laboratory setting to provide the 2 bluep rint for research and testing of l ow-carbon energy technologies and the development of a Smart Local Energy Syst em as part of the UK s journey to net zero. 2. Overview of the SEND Funded by the European Regional Development Fund and Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), the Keele University SEND was established to create Europe s largest at scale multi -vector smart energy demonstrator on the Keele campus. The demonstrator provides a platform that allows energy generation, distribution, storage, forecasting and energy balancing to be intelli gently carried out across different energy sources using the Keele University campus as a genuine living laboratory as shown in Figure 1. Figure 1: Overview of the SEND Living Laboratory at Keele University - Electric vehicle charging points (top- left), renewable energy generation using wind and solar (top -right) , and SEND control room (bottom ) (copyright: Keele University) Keele University owns and oper ates all of the utilities on its 600 -acre campus, thus creating a single owner operator environment across power, gas, heat, telecoms, water and drainage. The campus operates at the scale of a small town with 5,000 residents and more than 12,000 staff and students on campus per day and includes over 100 domestic properties for staff housing, as well as over 3000 student residential bedrooms, catering and leisure facilities, and office, teaching and laboratory environments. Annual energy demand across the campus is circa 63 GWh. Being a private network, SEND is able to integrate existing gas, water, and electricity networks to form a digitally managed , flexible and extensible smart system. Keele University has worked with Siemens and Equans to install the following infrastructure on the SEND network: 1500 smart meters (electric, heat and gas), 5.5MW Solar farm, 1.9 MW wind turbines, 1 MW battery 3 storage, upgrade of 25 substations, Spectrum distribution management system, decentralized energy management system (DEMS), Mindsphere (IoT cloud platform), SEND digital twin, IoT smart appliance control , over 20 EV charging points, and many residential , commercial and industrial controllers. The SEND system is an idea l testbed to explore how intelligent generation and distribution of electrical energy can be managed in a SLES environment. SEND enables t he campus system operators to control how the generation from the renewable energy sources is self -consumed in the Keele distribution network, feed -in of the excess generation to the grid and optimize the energy use on campus by measuring the grid carbon i ntensity. This is an innovative scheme in the way that the researchers and system operators can test novel leading -edge algorithms, methodologies and resolutions for energy distribution in a closed environment with energy - conscious consumers. The Living Lab approach also provides the opportunity for essential research to better understand the real use patterns and perceptions of smart energy system components of diverse energy users, and exploration of challenges at the socio -technical interface, as well as offering the opportunity
__label__energy	Towards a Sustainable Microgrid on Alderney Island Using a Python-based Energy Planning Tool Shahab Dehghan1 , Agnes M Nakiganda1, James Lancaster2, Petros Aristidou1,3 1School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK 2Alderney Electricity Ltd, Alderney, Channel Islands 3Department of Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering Informatics, Cyprus University of Technology, Cyprus E-mail: s.dehghan leeds.ac.uk Keywords: Battery Storage, Open-Source Tool, Sustainable Microgrid Planning, Uncertainty. Abstract In remote or islanded communities, the use of microgrids (MGs) is necessary to ensure electriﬁcation and resilience of supply. However, even in small-scale systems, it is computationally and mathematically challenging to design low-cost, optimal, sus- tainable solutions taking into consideration all the uncertainties of load demands and power generations from renewable energy sources (RESs). This paper uses the open-source Python-based Energy Planning (PyEPLAN) tool, developed for the design of sustainable MGs in remote areas, on the Alderney island, the 3rdlargest of the Channel Islands with a population of about 2000 people. A two-stage stochastic model is used to optimally invest in battery storage, solar power, and wind power units. Moreover, the AC power ﬂow equations are modelled by a linearised version of the DistFlow model in PyEPLAN, where the investment variables are here-and-now decisions and not a function of uncertain parameters while the operation variables are wait-and-see decisions and a function of uncertain parameters. The k-means clustering technique is used to generate a set of best (risk-seeker), nominal (risk-neutral), and worst (risk-averse) scenarios capturing the uncertainty spectrum using the yearly historical patterns of load demands and solar wind power generations. The proposed investment planning tool is a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) model and is coded with Pyomo in PyEPLAN. Nomenclature Indices n Index of nodes where n0andn00stand for nodes before and after node n, respectively. d Index of load demands. g Index of generation units. o Index of representative days (scenarios). t Index of time periods. Parameters eini b Initial stored energy of battery unit b(kW). emax b Maximum stored energy of battery unit b(kW). emin b Minimum stored energy of battery unit b(kW). pcd Penalty cost of load demand curtailment ( kWh). pcr Penalty cost of RES power generation curtailment ( kWh). fd Power factor of load demand d. icb Annualised investment cost of battery unit b( ). icg Annualised investment cost of generation unit g( ). mcgMarginal cost of generation unit g( kWh). pmax;c d bMaximum charging discharging power of battery unit b (kW). pdto Load demand dat hourtin representative day o ( kWh). pmax n0nMaximum active power ﬂow from node n0to noden (kW). This work is supported by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) under Grant EP R030243 1.pmaxg Maximum active power of generation unit g(kW). pmax gto Maximum power generation of generation unit gat hour tin representative day o(kW). qmax b Maximum reactive power of battery unit b(kV Ar). qmin b Minimum reactive power of battery unit b(kV Ar). qmax n0nMaximum reactive power ﬂow from node n0to noden (kV Ar). qmaxg Maximum reactive power of generation unit g(kV Ar). qming Minimum reactive power of generation unit g(kV Ar). rn0nResistance of the line connecting nodes (n0;n)(ohm). vmaxMaximum permitted voltage magnitude (V). vminMinimum permitted voltage magnitude (V). xn0nReactance of the line connecting nodes (n0;n)(ohm). c d b Reactance of the line connecting nodes (n0;n)(ohm). Sets BSet of battery units where Bnindicates set of battery units connected to node n. NSet of nodes where Nnindicates set of nodes after and connected to node n. DSet of load demands where Dnindicates set of load demands connected to node n. LSet of distribution lines connecting nodes. MSet of micro-turbine diesel units where Mnindicates set of micro-turbine diesel generators connected to node n. RSet of RES units where Rnindicates set of RES units connected to node n. TSet of hours. 1arXiv:2007.15165v1 math.OC 30 Jul 2020 Variables pc d bto Active charging discharging power of battery unit bat hourtin representative day o(kW). pn0ntoActive power ﬂow from node n0to nodenat hourtin representative day o(kW). pgto Active power generation of generation unit gat hourt in representative day o(kW). qbto Reactive power of battery unit bat hourtin representa- tive dayo(kW). qn0ntoReactive power ﬂow from node n0to nodenat hourtin representative day o(kV Ar). qgto Reactive power generation of generator gat hourtin representative day o(kV Ar). vnto V oltage magnitude of node nat hourtin representative dayo(V). ydto Curtailment status of load demand dat hourtin repre- sentative day o(i.e., 1 0: curtailed not-curtailed). zb Investment status of battery unit b(i.e., 1 0: built non- built). zg Investment status of RES unit g(i.e., 1 0: built non- built). 1 Introduction Alderney island with an area of 3 square miles runs a closed complex energy system that entirely relies on imported fuel oils for electricity, heating, and transportation. Major economic activities on the island include e-trade, ecotourism, small busi- nesses, health care services. The only energy supplier on the island is Alderney Electricity Limited (AEL) 1 , providing for both electric and heating loads. AEL is responsible for the importation and distribution of different fuels, including kerosene and transport fuels, as well as the generation and dis- tribution of electricity. The company manages both the 11kV primary distribution network, consisting of 21substations, as well as the 415V secondary distribution network. AEL starts with the higher voltage to account for cable losses ensuring the voltage is still in spec. by the time it gets where it is going. Networks mainly comprise underground cables, there are a small number of overheads which are being progressively replaced. Electric power on Alderney island is centrally gen- erated by 8 450kV A diesel generators and supplied through an extensive network consisting of underground cables. Hence, the main aim of this paper is to create a sustainable microgrid (MG) on Alderney island, which obviates the reliance of AEL on only fossil fuels. 1.1 Literature Review and Contributions MG is a low-voltage electrical network, including diverse controllable and uncontrollable producers, consumers, and pro- sumers, that can be operated autonomously. The concept of MG has been initially introduced in the seminal
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Decentralized Control for Hetero geneous Batter y Energy Storage System Yusuke Hakuta , Yasushi Amano , Tomohiko Jimbo , and Shuji Tomura Toyota Central R D Labs., Inc., 41- 1, Yokomichi, Nagakute, Aichi 480 -1192 Japan (e-mail: yusuke- hakuta mosk.tytlabs.co.jp ). Toyota Motor Corporation, 1, Toyota -cho, Toyota, Aichi 471- 8571 Japan Abstract : B attery energy storage systems (BESS s) are essential for stable power supply in renewable energy systems that can operate in all weather. Future BESSs will be massive and pluggable with several heterogeneous batteries. In this paper, a novel decentralized control method for a heterogene ous BESS is proposed, in which each battery autonomously operates based on its characteristics. First, a control method that uses only one broadcast signal for each type of batter y is proposed . Second , the asymptotic stability of the tracking error is proved. Third, numerical simulations confirm that the proposed control method has robust tracking performance of the total electric power to the demanded power when some batteries fail and are detached from the system . Last, in order to suppress degradation of battery , equalization of the s tate of c harge is achieved for each type of batter y without communication among the batteries . Keywords : Decen tralized control, Energy systems, Tracking control , Asymptotic stability, Lyapunov method 1. INTRODUCTION Ren ewable energy has been under development for more than a decade in many countries to help resolve environmental problem s such as global warming and air pollution. However, since the amount of electric power generated by these energ y sources is weather dependent , large- scale energy storage system s consist ing of components such as batteries, photovoltaic cells, and fuel cells have been introduced to adjust for electricity supply and demand (Choi et al. (2012); Arani et al. (2019) ). In p articular, several studies on battery energy storage systems (BESS s) have been reported (Lawder et al. (2014); Takeda et al. (2014); Georgious et al. (2016) ; Xu et al. ( 2017) ; Tobajas et al. (2022); Iwafune et al. (2019) ). In most BESS s , the electric power of the batteries is controlle d by a centralized controller , which can easily ensure sufficient optimality and stability. The centralized controller monitors factors such as capacity, temperature, and voltage limitation s on its server, and compute s the optimal output power for each battery . As the number of batteries increases, the operating cost of the server increases . Furthermore, these systems may be vulnerable because each power supply operation relies on the server. To address this problem, decentralized and distributed control methods have been proposed (Arani et al. (2019); Amano et al. (2021); Akutsu et al. (2017) ). We focus on a heterogeneous BE SS in this paper. Using heterogeneous batteries has the advantage that each battery has its own characteristics and performance . In the future, massive and pluggable BESSs with several heterogeneous batteries will be practically implemented . In this paper , a novel decentralized control method is proposed in which each battery autonomously operate s based on its characteristics . The contributions of this study are as follows: A proposed novel decentralized control method i s presented in which heterogeneous batteries can operate independent ly to perform to their specific characteristics . Asymptotic stability of the tracking error of the total electric power to the demanded power is proved. Robust tracking performance when some batteries fail and are detached from the system is validated by numerical simulation s. Equalization of the state of c harge (SOC ) for each type of batter y without communication among th e batteries is validated by a numerical simulation. Fig. 1. Configuration of heterogenous BESS The organization of this paper is as follows: In Section 2, the control problem addressed in this paper is formulated. Section 3 describes the proposed novel decentralized controller. In Section 4, the effectiveness of the proposed controller is demonstrated in numerical simulations. Section 5 provides the conclusions. 2. PROBLEM F ORMUL ATION Figure 1 shows t he configuration of the heterogeneous battery energy storage system we analyzed . This system consist s of high- capacity assembled batteries ( energy -type batteries), high -power assembled batteries (power- type batteries), a power conditioning system (PCS), and DC DC converters. The PCS converts the DC electric power discharged by the batteries into AC electric power. Each battery is equipped with a DC DC converter . For simplicity, only batteries are considered as energy storage source s in this paper . The electric losses for the PCS and DC DC converters are assumed to be zero. We take the observable output 𝑦𝑦 to be the total electric power generated by all the batteries , and the reference 𝑟𝑟 to be the electric power demanded from the electric al power grid (demanded power) . For 𝑦𝑦 0, electric power is discharge d from the batteries , and for 𝑦𝑦 0 the batteries are charged. The electric power of each battery is the control input. In this study, the formulation of the control problem requires the following: The closed -loop system should be stable. The total electric power 𝑦𝑦 should track the demanded power 𝑟𝑟. The SOC for batteries should be equalized to suppress battery degradation as much as possible. In a decentralized manner, the battery 𝑖𝑖 determines the electric power 𝑢𝑢𝑖𝑖 autonomously without communication among the batteries. Energy -type batteries operate more slowly than power - type batteries. 3. DECENTRALIZED CONTRO L We propose a novel decentralized control method in which heterogeneous batteries can behave differently to utilize their characteristics. The block diagram is shown in Fig. 2. An energy -type battery 𝐸𝐸 𝑖𝑖(𝑖𝑖 1, ,𝐼𝐼) generates its own electric power 𝑢𝑢𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖. It is determined using only one signal 𝑒𝑒𝐸𝐸 as follows: 𝜑𝜑 𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 𝐾𝐾𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖𝑒𝑒𝐸𝐸 𝑢𝑢𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 𝜎𝜎𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 𝜑𝜑𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 , (1) where 𝜑𝜑𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 is the state of the controller, 𝐾𝐾𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 is the gain , and 𝜎𝜎𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 is the switching function of the battery 𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖.
__label__energy	Current Biology (2020) 30(7) R298-R300, doi: https: doi.org 10.1016 j.cub.2020.03.007 Licences CC-BY-NC-ND Tra c accident increase attributed to Daylight Saving Time doubled after Energy Policy Act Jos e Mar a Mart n-Olalla Universidad de Sevilla. Facultad de F sica. Departamento de F sica de la Materia Condensada. ES41012 Sevilla. Spain (Dated: February 6, 2020) On January 30, 2020 Current Biology released the report A Chronobiological Evaluation of the Acute E ects of Daylight Saving Time on Tra c Accident Risk (doi: 10.1016 j.cub.2019.12.045 by Fritz et al. where it was argued that fatal tra c accident risk increases by 6 in the US due to Daylight Saving Time spring transition. This manuscript is a 1000 word correspondence showing that the bulk of this reported risk comes from the transition dates mandated by the Energy Policy Act in 2007. Keywords: circadian, time zones, latitude, summer time, seasons, circadian misalignment, meridian, enter- tainment (light), transportation, road accidents, tra c accident This is the accepted manuscript of a correspondence published by Current Biology Volume 30, Issue 7, Pages R298-R300. ISSN 0960-9822, ESSN 1879-0445. For the authored, published version please visit doi https: doi.org 10.1016 j.cub.2020.03.007 The impact of Daylight Saving Time (DST) transitions on the human circadian system and on everyday life is currently subject to close analysis. Fritz et al. 1 stud- ied recently large scale United States (US) registry data (1996 to 2017) on fatal motor vehicle accidents (MVA) and reported the incidence rate ratio. The authors report results for data before 2006, for data after 2007, and for the whole observation period. They also report morn- ing, afternoon and whole-day results. The discussion and conclusions are extracted mainly from the whole-day g- ures and those from the entire 1996 to 2017 period. Yet the breakdown illustrates a most interesting fact: the amendments in the Uniform Time Act made by the En- ergy Policy Act doubled the increase of fatal morning MVA attributed to the spring transition. Figure 1 shows a simplistic scenario at 40 N the lati- tude of New York City and Madrid in which the yearly evolution of the solar altitude zat the latest sunrise time here after the H-hour is plotted (black line). Solar altitude is appropriate for understanding a key parame- ter related to the rate of tra c accidents: illumination conditions (see Figure 1B in Ref. 1 ). The H-hour is a function of latitude only if expressed as a mean solar time or as a distance to solar noon. It impacts human social life since an activity starting at or after the H-hour would certainly occur in the photoperiod irrespective of calendar date. People at 40 N latitude would see the Sun crossing the horizon in January 5th at the H-hour and would see the Sun as high as z 30 above the horizon in June at the same hour of the day, if noth- olalla us.es; ing else changes. As the Sun gets higher in the sky in spring summer more people nd natural to advance their activity aiming to mitigate their exposure to the highest insolation: at 40 N insolation e ciency climbs up to a tropical 95 (see right axis in Figure 1). Likewise, as the solar altitude decreases in autumn winter people delay their activity aiming to mitigate their exposure to morn- ing darkness. This circanual cycle is observed in tropical, pre-industrial societies 2 . It is also observed in extrat- ropical, industrial societies synchronized by clocks 3, 4 and which have adopted year-round time schedules where DST transition dates regulate the mechanism. Chronobi- ologists largely criticizes 1, 5 the practice, yet they even- tually acknowledge that people are prone to this natural behaviour 6 . In Figure 1 the spring transition brings the human activity at the H-hour from the black line to the blue line. In fall, the shift is reversed. Vertical colored strip bands display transition dates. The Energy Policy Act advanced in 2007 the spring transition by three weeks. In 2020 zwill change from zst 12 tozdst 1 at 40 N in the US. It changed from zst 19 tozdst 7 before 2006. In Europe at 40 N, it will change from zst 17 tozdst 5 this year. Either of the last two cases keeps the Sun high enough over the horizon so that illumination conditions at the H- hour are unaltered. Therefore an increase of tra c acci- dents due to changing illumination conditions is expected to be slight. However, the changing in illumination con- ditions is dramatic for the current US regulations: a nice deal of tra c volume is shifted close to dawn after the transition. Several cons and pros must be further considered: rst, a fraction of population commutes before H-hour in the Typeset by REVT EXarXiv:2004.04156v1 physics.pop-ph 9 Apr 2020 2 -18 0 18 36 54 72 90 31 59 81 95 100 Twilight DaylightZenith H-hour (ST) H-hour (DST)Latitude 40 N H-hour 07:22 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DECSolar altitude, z Insolation eﬃciency, 100 sin(z)ST to DST DST to ST 1 8 18 14 18 18 14 9 4 -2 2 US (after 2007) EUR US (1987-2006) US (1976-1987)US (1942) EUR (1940) US (after 2007)EUR (after 1996) US (before 2006)EUR (before 1996) FIG. 1. The seasonal variation of solar altitude at 40 N. The solar altitude zat the hour of the latest sunrise of the year black, H-hour (Standard Time, ST) and at the preceding hour blueish, H-hour (Daylight Saving Time, DST) as a function of calendar date for 40 N latitude where the H-hour is 07:22 mean solar time, the sunrise time on January the 5th. Coloured vertical strip bands display di erent arrangements of transition dates; each one expands for one week. The yellowish line displays solar altitude at solar noon. Sunrise is set at zc 0:85 due to solar nite apparent size and atmospheric refraction. winter dawn, they are more prone to see the Sun below the horizon after DST begins in
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	arXiv:1312.2668v2 cs.SY 15 Sep 2014IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONTROL OF NETWORK SYSTEMS (CONES) 1 Optimal compression in natural gas networks: a geometric programming approach Sidhant Misra, Michael W. Fisher, Scott Backhaus, Russell B ent, Michael Chertkov, Feng Pan Abstract Natural gas transmission pipelines are complex sys- tems whose ﬂow characteristics are governed by challenging non- linear physical behavior. These pipelines extend over hund reds and even thousands of miles. Gas is typically injected into the system at a constant rate, and a series of compressors are distributed along the pipeline to boost the gas pressure to maintain system pressure and throughput. These compressor s consume a portion of the gas, and one goal of the operator is to control the compressor operation to minimize this consumpt ion while satisfying pressure constraints at the gas load point s. The optimization of these operations is computationally chall enging. Many pipelines simply rely on the intuition and prior experi ence of operators to make these decisions. Here, we present a new geometric programming approach for optimizing compressor op- eration in natural gas pipelines. Using models of real natur al gas pipelines, we show that the geometric programming algorith m consistently outperforms approaches that mimic existing s tate of practice. Index Terms Natural Gas Network, Optimal Compression, Geometric Programming, Dynamic Programming I. INTRODUCTION : HISTORY MOTIVATION IN recent years, worldwide natural gas reserves have ex- panded at a rapid pace. The invention and application of hydraulic fracturing in the US has enabled the economic capture of many sources of unconventional natural gas 1 while improved exploration techniques and increased offsh ore activity has led to increased conventional reserves in seve ral countries. The increased availability and lower cost of gas in these regions are making it more attractive economically . In the US, the economic advantage of gas is pushing out coal (and to a lesser extent fuel oil) as a primary source of energy. In addition, the lower CO2 emissions from gas mitigatemuchoftheuncertaintyrelatedtothefutureecono mic cost of carbon emissions. These properties make gas a very attractive bridge fuel to a low carbon economy, and this shif t is alreadyoccurringin severalregionsofthe US electric se ctor 2 . The high cost and long economic lifetime of the electric al generation assets acts to lock in this shift to a large degree . The cost of the fuel is not the only advantage of natural gas over coal and fuel oil. From the planning and constructio n point of view, the physical footprint and total emissions of gas S. Misra, M.W.Fisher and M. Chertkov are with Theory Divisio n of LANL, Los Alamos, NM 87544 S. Misra is also with Department of Electrical Engineering a nd Computer Science, MIT, Cambridge, MA, 02139 M. W. Fisher is also with Department of Electrical Engineeri ng and Computer Science, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 48105 S. Backhaus is with MPA Division of LANL, Los Alamos, NM 87544 R. Bent and F. Pan are with DSA Division of LANL, Los Alamos, NM 87544 Manuscript received September 20, 2013turbinesissmallerthancoalorfueloil-basedgeneratione asing the difﬁculty of siting and permitting. From an operational perspective, gas turbines can quickly change their generat ion output in response to changes in intermittent renewable gen - eration such as wind. This ability to move quickly is also manifest in the ability to quickly start up a gas turbine from a cold condition (especially single-cycle gas turbines). T he combination of these beneﬁts is driving the higher penetrat ion ofgasturbinesintotheelectricalgrid.TheIndependentSy stem Operator of New England (ISO-NE) is a prime example. Over the two decades, the level of gas generation in ISO-NE has increased from 5 to 50 of total generation capacity 3 . However,the beneﬁts of natural gasare not without some risk . As the level of natural gas-based generation increases, lar ger and perhaps more variable,1natural gas loads will effect the operations of the large natural gas transmission pipelines that bring the gas from the sources to the generator and other gas loads. The impact is not just one-way. The ﬁnite capacity of these gas transmission pipelines will limit the availabili ty of gas which will directly affect ability of natural gas genera tors to respond to grid operator control commands. The majority of the distance between gas sources and gas generators and other loads is covered by large, high-pressu re transmission pipelines. High pressure and density enable h igh throughput with the pressure drop driving the gas through the pipeline. As the pressure falls, the ﬂow velocity increa ses (under constant mass ﬂux) and the pressure then falls even faster. Gas compressors are used to maintain the throughput of pipeline and maintain the required pressure at the custom er load points. Often these gas compressors are driven by gas engines that burn natural gas from the pipeline itself. Typi cal designs of transmission pipelines places compressors ever y 50-100 miles. In large transmission pipelines that span 600 miles or more, compressors consume (burn) 2 5 of the transmitted gas. This burn is a cost of transporting the gas, and who bears that cost affects the goals of the operational optimizations(discussedbelow).Complicatingthedomain ,the bearer of this cost differs from country to country. The difﬁculty and expense of building new or expanding large-scale infrastructure coupled with the increasing (a nd the potentially more time-variable) gas loads calls for improv ed optimization of pipeline operations. However, the goals of these optimizationsmust be aware ofanddevelopedwithinth e regulatory,market and ownershipframeworksof the pipelin es. Here, we brieﬂy review two existing frameworks that are 1Natural gas generation is often used to smooth the variabili ty in renewable energy sources. 2 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONTROL OF NETWORK SYSTEMS (CONES) at opposite ends of this regulatory ownership spectrum. No r- way presents a relatively simple framework. In Norway, gas sources, gas pipelines, and the sale of gas inside and outsid e the countryis controlledby the government.Norway produce s more gas than can be domestically consumed and has strong economic motivations to sell this excess to the rest of Europ e.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Evaluating Policy Implications on the Restrictiveness of Flow-based Market Coupling with High Shares of Intermittent Generation: A Case Study for Central Western Europe Richard Weinholda, aFakult at VII Wirtschaft und Management, TU Berlin, 10623 Berlin, Germany. Abstract The current stage in the evolution of the European internal energy market for electricity is de ned by the transformation towards a renewable energy system. The Clean Energy Package aims to ensure that methods for capacity allocation and congestion management, that are at the center of the European internal market for electricity, align with this transformation. Flow-based market coupling, the preferred method for capacity alloca- tion, is rst and foremost a formal process to allocate exchange capacities to the markets. However, the process also allows for many considerations of the involved parties that impact the resulting capacities. As part of the Clear Energy Package, the regulatory body enacted their ambition to increase ex- change capacities by enforcing transmission system operators to allocate a minimum margin of physical line capacity with the goal of providing a higher level of competition and better integration of renewable energy sources. This study investigates this and other policy relevant consideration of ow-based market coupling. The model results quantify the trade-o between permissive capacity al- location and increased congestion management. For high shares of intermit- tent renewable generation, less constrained exchange capacities are favorable, however also highlight the importance of the markets ability to integrate high shares of intermittent generation. Keywords: Flow-Based Market Coupling, FBMC, Economic Dispatch Problem, Transmission System, Optimal Power Flow, Security Constrained Optimal Power Flow Corresponding author Email address: riw wip.tu-berlin.de (Richard Weinhold) Preprint submitted to Elsevier September 13, 2021arXiv:2109.04940v1 physics.soc-ph 10 Sep 2021 1. Introduction Europe s commitment to become climate neutral by 2050 (Directorate General for Energy, 2019) draws a clear path towards a fully decarbonized electricity sector. This transformation is characterized by a large increase of intermittent renewable generation as well as decommissioning of conven- tional and nuclear generation capacities. The current understanding of the European internal energy market (IEM) for electricity aims to e ciently achieve climate targets while providing generators and consumers with non- discriminatory market access and ensuring a ordable and secure provision of electricity (European Commission, 2019a, Art. 1). Its central mechanism of capacity allocation and congestion management aims to e ciently use trans- mission infrastructure, ensures operational security and transparency (Euro- pean Commission, 2015). Capacity allocation summarizes methods and reg- ulations that dimension electricity trading volumes that market participants can use based on the physical transmission capacity and operational consid- erations. Congestion management describes actions and protocols taken by the responsible transmission system operator (TSO) if network congestion occurs (European Commission, 1997). Previously, capacity allocation was implemented using static, bilateral net transfer capacities (NTCs) which are based on non-public network mod- els and assessments of historic network loads (ETSO, 2001). NTCs do not account for restricting transmission assets within market zones, resulting in potentially too conservative capacity allocation and increased congestion management (Amprion et al., 2011). From 2015 ow-based market coupling (FBMC) replaced NTC as the preferred method for capacity allocation and is used in the Central Western European (CWE) region1. Its main advantages are increased transparency from a clear methodology that describes capacity allocation and, more importantly, the fact that capacity is allocated towards the net-position of each bidding-zone based on individual network elements rather than bilaterally. Thus FBMC ultimately better aligns with the goal to utilize the network infrastructure more e ciently and accommodate the transformation towards a decarbonized electricity system. Since its inauguration, FBMC has proven to be the more e cient capac- ity allocation compared to NTCs while providing at least the same level of security (Rte et al., 2015). However, the regulation seeks to achieve high 1The CWE region consists of Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Nether- lands. 2 levels of price convergence between market areas leading to overall lower prices, unrestricted access to the internal European electricity market and thereby successful integration of renewable generation (ACER and CEER, 2020). As a result, Regulation (European Commission, 2019a) makes clear that capacity allocation has priority over congestion management and that TSOs should not restrict commercial exchange to solve internal congestion, as previously observed by ACER (2016), and explicitly requires that at least 70 of physical capacity is allocated to the market. This directly alters the method to derive trading volumes and makes clear that the formal process of deriving trading volumes using the ow-based methodology, which orig- inally made the appearance to be a purely formal process, leaves room to implement policy decisions. While the canon of academic literature explains and depicts the formal side of the process and explores the e ects of di erent parametrizations very well, policy decisions that de ne which outcome aligns with political targets are rarely discussed or numerically modeled. Capacity allocation within FBMC is de ned by the two objectives of mar- ket integration, meaning the provision of commercial exchange capacity, and secure operation whose outcome results in very di erent trading volumes. This paper aims to highlight this presumed trade-o and investigate how the policy decision to prioritize capacity allocation over congestion management a ects the e ciency of FBMC and its ability to accommodate the transfor- mation in the European electricity system. 2. Background on FBMC and Literature Review FBMC is a multistage process coordinated by the TSOs which aims to allocate commercial exchange capacities to the markets. Speci cally, this three step process, as depicted in Figure 1, consists of a D-2 capacity forecast, also called basecase, which represents the best estimate of the system state at delivery (50Hertz et al., 2020). The basecase is a result from forecasts on load and renewable energy sources (RES) feed-in and already allocated capacities e.g. long term nominations in conjunction with network models. Based on this forecast so called ow-based parameters are calculated and used to constrain the commercial exchange in the day-ahead market coupling stage. In the European IEM the central market clearing algorithm Pan-
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	THE IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONTROL OF NETWORK SYSTEMS 1 Towards Optimality Preserving Aggregation for Scheduling Distributed Energy Resources Riccardo Remo Appino, Student Member, IEEE, Veit Hagenmeyer, Member, IEEE, and Timm Faulwasser, Member, IEEE Abstract Scheduling the power exchange between a popu- lation of heterogeneous distributed energy resources and the corresponding upper-level system is an important control prob- lem in power systems. A key challenge is the large number of (partially uncertain) parameters and decision variables that increase the computational burden and that complicate the structured consideration of uncertainties. Reducing the number of decision variables by means of aggregation can alleviate these issues. However, despite the frequent use of aggregation for storage, few works in the literature provide formal justiﬁcation. In the present paper, we investigate aggregation of heterogeneous (storage) devices with time-varying power and energy constraints. In particular, we propose mild conditions on the constraints of each device guaranteeing the applicability of an aggregated model in scheduling without any loss of optimality in comparison to the complete problem. We conclude with a discussion of limitations and possible extensions of our ﬁndings. Index Terms Electric Power Networks, Optimization, Prob- lem Reduction, Optimal Control I. I NTRODUCTION The ongoing paradigm changes in the operation of power systems entail the need for coordinated management and operation of large populations of Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) 1 . To this end, different explicit and implicit aggrega- tion strategies have been considered in the literature. This com- prises concepts such as microgrids ,virtual power plants , and integrated community energy systems . Despite differences in aims, level of integration, and operations management, all of the above consider power exchange across a (virtual physical) boundary between some kind of lower-level aggregated system and an upper level, which is regulated implicitly via energy markets 2 . In this context, the problem of scheduling the power exchange between a population of heterogenous DERs (or an aggregation thereof) and the corresponding upper-level system is a pivotal problem that has received considerable research attention, cf. the overview 3 and the references therein. A general key challenge is the uncertainty surround- ing loads and generators not controllable by the aggregating entity 4 . Hence, scheduling of DERs is usually cast as a stochastic optimization problem. The additional requirement of computational scalability i.e. scheduling numerous devices at once exacerbate the challenge, as the collective response to Manuscript received ... The authors gratefully acknowledge funding by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) within the Kopernikus Project ENSURE, BMBF-Support Code 03SFK1A. All authors are with the Institute for Automation and Applied Informatics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, 76344 Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany; e-mails: friccardo.appino, veit.hagenmeyer g kit.edu, timm.faulwasser ieee.orgthe realizations of the uncertainties should consider spatial and temporal correlations. However, market regulations require only the total active power exchange with the upper-level grid to be scheduled in advance 2 ; the remaining degrees of freedom (i.e. the distri- bution of the power exchange among the individual devices) can be determined in later steps. This aspect motivates the use of aggregated models of DERs to the end of reducing the complexity of the complete scheduling problem. The main idea is to calculate one schedule for each aggregation of DERs in- stead of computing individual schedules for individual DERs ; thus leaving the decision on how to practically operate the individual devices to enforce the aggregated schedule to a subsequent moment. The expected advantages of aggregated models are twofold: computational scalability and improved handling of the uncertainties.1 In this context, aggregated scheduling for a population of energy storage systems 6 , plug-in electric vehicles 7 10 , as well as thermostatically controlled loads 11 , 12 have been recently investigated. Moreover, 13 15 address populations of heterogenous devices. However, aggregating heterogenous DERs is difﬁcult. In fact, an aggregated model describing a cluster of DERs may induce relaxed constraints, which can lead to solutions violating the original constraints of the individual devices. Consequently, applying aggregated models to scheduling calls for guarantees on the feasibility of the solution with respect to the original problem. The correct- ness of reduced aggregated models is largely investigated as a control problem, targeting aspects as frequency response 16 or system stability 17 . However, the majority of the works dealing with optimization-based control of power systems focuses on convex relaxations of the power ﬂow equations, see 18 , disregarding reduced aggregated models. Only few works address exactness of generalized aggregated models applied to power systems, e.g. 14 , 15 . In particular, 15 addresses the problem of discharging a cluster of energy-constrained DERs in order to track a pre-computed schedule. The authors of 14 , instead, proposed a fully general and theoretically justiﬁed aggregation method for the control of distribution systems, followed by an extensive validation study 19 . However, so far the following issue remains open: Is a conceptually simpler interval-based aggregation as the one 1Note that postponing the decision on the single-device schedules has the additional advantage of improving (statistically) the quality of the overall decision process, because of the additional information available at this latter moment, cf. 5 .arXiv:1906.09183v1 eess.SY 20 Jun 2019 2 THE IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONTROL OF NETWORK SYSTEMS presented in 13 likewise theoretically justiﬁed when applied to scheduling problems? In the present paper, we investigate scheduling of an aggre- gation of heterogeneous Energy-Constrained Distributed En- ergy Resources (EC-DERs), such as storage or ﬂexible loads. Similar to 13 , we model both EC-DERs and an aggregation of EC-DERs as so-called time-varying batteries 20 , i.e. storage with time-dependent power and energy constraints. To the best of the authors knowledge, a thorough analysis of this aggregation concept has not been conducted yet. The contributions of the present paper are: We derive sufﬁcient conditions that an aggregated time- varying battery model for a population of EC-DERs can be used for scheduling without comprising feasibility of the individual constraints of the EC-DERs. We propose a methodology to ensure consistent online tracking of the aggregated schedule. This methodology is based on
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	Distributed Intelligent System Architecture for UAV - Assisted Monitoring of Wind Energy Infrastructure Serhii Svystun1, , , Oleksandr Melnychenko1, Pavlo Radiuk1, Oleg Savenko1 and Andrii Lysyi1 1 Khmelnytskyi National University, 11, Institutes str., Khmelnytskyi, 29016, Ukraine Abstract With the rapid development of green energy, the efficiency and reliability of wind turbines are key to sustainable renewable energy production. For that reason , this paper presents a novel intelligent system architecture designed for the dynamic collection and real -time processing of visual data to detect defects in wind turbines. The system employs advanced algorithms within a distributed framework to enhance inspection accuracy and efficiency using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) with integrated visual an d thermal sensors. An experimental study conducted at the Staryi Sambir -1 wind power plant in Ukraine demonstrates the system s effectiveness, showing a significant improvement in defect detection accuracy (up to 94 ) and a reduction in inspection time per turbine (down to 1.5 hours) compared to traditional methods. The results show that the proposed intelligent system architecture provides a scalable and reliable solution for wind turbine maintenance, contributing to the durability and performance of ren ewable energy infrastructure . Keywords wind turbine inspection, UAV, intelligent systems, distributed architecture, defect detection, renewable energy maintenance, automated monitoring 1 1. Introduction In recent decades, the growth of renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar power, has increased the importance of proper maintenance and efficient operation of these technologies. Wind turbines, a pivotal component in wind energy generation, pose unique challenges due to their substantial size and intricate mechanical structures 1 . At the same time, they tend to take different forms of degradation over time, including blade cracks and mechanical failures, which can compromise performance or lead to complete shutdowns. Failure to detect such issues promptly can result in significant repair costs and loss of energy production 2, 3 , emphasizing the critical need for continuous and r eliable monitoring systems 4 . Conventional inspection methods, such as manual visual assessments and ground -based equipment checks, often fall short in efficiency, speed, and cost -effectiveness. These approaches can be labor -intensive, time -consuming, and sometimes risky for personnel due to turbine components elevated and exposed locations. The advent of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) 5, 6 , coupled with advancements in visual data processing technologies 7, 8 , has opened new avenues for automated inspection solutions 9 . These t echnologies facilitate real -time identification of potential problems, thereby minimizing downtime and extending the operational lifespan of wind turbines 10 . However, existing automated systems often struggle with limitations like insufficient scalability, inadequate real -time data processing capabilities, and challenges in integrating multiple sensor types for a holistic assessment 11 . Hence, there is a need for an intelligent system capable of dynamically collecting and analyzing visual data on turbine defects, effectively integrating various sensors, and operating efficiently across expansive wind farms. Addressing these challenges, this research presents a novel intelligent system architecture designed to enhance the dynamic collection and processing of visual data to identify defects in green energy infrastructures in real time, focusing on wind turbines . The proposed system leverages UAVs with integrated sensors, including visual and thermal cameras, and utilizes advanced algorithms to comprehensively evaluate turbine conditions. Its distributed architecture allows for the parallel operation of different components, such as UAVs, control devices, and sensors, ensuring seamless functionality in large -scale wind farm environments. The primary objective of this study is to develop an advanced, automated monitoring solution that overcomes the limitations of current systems by improving efficiency, accuracy, and scalability in wind turbine inspections. By harnessing state -of-the-art UA V technology, sensor integration, and real -time data processing, the system aims to provide a more reliable and effective means of maintaining the health and performance of wind turbines. This contributes to the broader goal of sustaining and advancing ren ewable energy infrastructures for long -term viability . 2. Related works Efforts to develop effective monitoring and inspection systems for wind turbines have intensified, focusing on early defect detection to mitigate unexpected failures and ensure continuous operation 12, 13 . Traditional methods, such as manual visual inspe ctions 14 and ground -based equipment assessments 15 , are increasingly considered inadequate due to inefficiency, high costs, and safety risks 16 . This has led to a growing interest in integrating advanced technologies like UAVs, sensor fusion, and de ep learning (DL) 17 methods into inspection practices 18 . Several studies have explored the use of UAVs for wind turbine inspections. Sanati et al. introduced an automated UAV -based system utilizing visual and thermal imaging to detect defects like blade cracks 19 . While this method enhanced detection capabilit ies, it was limited by its reliance on specific imaging modalities, potentially missing defects detectable by other sensors. Shihavuddin et al. employed UAVs equipped with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to improve surface defect detection 20 . Altho ugh this approach increased accuracy and explainability rates, it often depended on single -sensor data, which might not capture the full spectrum of potential defects . Recently, different research groups have investigated multi -sensor fusion techniques to overcome the limitations of single -sensor reliance. Memari et al. integrated visual and thermal sensors to develop an intelligent system capable of detecting surface and internal defects in turbine blades 2 1 . This comprehensive approach improved reliability but introduced complexity in data integration and required sophisticated algorithms for effective processing. Similarly, Castelar Wembers et al. proposed a multi -sensor system combining LiDAR and infrared sensors to inspect turbine towers for structural defects 2 2 . However, this method demanded advanced equipment and increased computational res ources. Advancements in intelligent data processing have also been significant. Tian et al. presented a DL -based method using CNN and long short -term memory networks to analyze collected data and identify blade defects 2 3 . This technique improved detection accuracy but was computationally intensive, potentially hindering real -time application. Li et al. developed a DL model
__label__energy	1 Switchable Photovoltaic Effect in Ferroelectric CsPbBr 3 Nanocrystals Anashmita Ghosh1, Susmita Paul1, Mrinmay Das1, Piyush Kanti Sarkar1, Pooja Bhardwaj2, Goutam Sheet2, Surajit Das1, Anuja Datta1and Somobrata Acharya1 1School of Applied Interdisciplinary Sciences, India Association for the Cultivation of Science, Jadavpur, Kolkata -700032 , India 2Department of Physical Sciences, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Mohali, Sector 81, S. A. S. Nagar, Manauli P.O. 140306, India Corresponding Author: camsa 2 iacs.res.in Abstract: Ferroelectric all -inorganic halide perovskites nanocrystals with both spontaneous polarizations and visible light absorption are promising candidates for designing functional ferroelectric photovoltaic devices . Three -dimensional halide perovskite nanocryst als have the potential of being ferroelectric, yet it remains a challenge to realize ferroelectric photovoltaic devices which can be operated in absence of an external electric field . Here we report that a popular all-inorganic halide perovskite nanocrysta l, CsPbBr 3, exhibits ferroelectricity driven photovoltaic effect under visible light in absence of an external electric field . The ferroelectricity in CsPbBr 3 nanocrystals originates from the stereochemical activity in Pb (II) lone pair that promotes the distortion of PbBr 6 octahedra. Furthermore, application of an external e lectric field allows the photovoltaic effect to be enhanced and the spontaneous polarization to be switch ed with the direction of the electric field. Robust fatigue performance, flexib ility and prolonged photoresponse under continuous illumination are potentially realized in the zero-bias conditions . These finding establishes all -inorganic halide perovskites nanocrystals as potential candidates for designing novel photoferroelectric devices by coupling optical functionalities and ferroelectric responses. 1. Introduction Ferroelectricity is a remarkable phenomenon that plays a significant role in modern technolog ies. Ferroelectrics undergo a transition from a high-symmetry structure to a low - symmetry state with a spontaneous electric polariza tion below a transition temperature. Such spontaneous polarization occurs below the Curie temperature and can be switched using an 2 external electric field. 1,2 Ferroelectric oxide perovskites 3 have shown potential applications in ferroelectric random access memories , 4 switchable ferroelectric diodes , 5,6 electromechanical transducers , 7 9 non-volatile memor ies, 10,11 actuators , 12 and in the fields of high -K materials . 13 Ferroelectricity driven photovoltaic effect is an emerging area of research, which has been primarily observed only in traditiona l oxide ferroelectric materials . 14 17 Obvious advantages in using ferroelectric photovoltaic materials include the possibility of generating a large open circuit voltage , facile separation of charge carriers, slow recombination, and long carrier diffusion lengths . 18 Recently, f erroelectricity induced photovoltaic effects have been observed in hybrid halide perovskites , in particular MAPbI 3. 18 20 In the context of hybrid halide perovskites , ferroelectricity originates owing to two obvious reasons. The polar MA ( CH 3NH 3 ) cation organic units carry dipoles, which is the prerequisite of any ferroelectric material. In addition, Pb (II) containing perovskites are known to give rise to ferroelectricity arising from its lone pair, which helps to distort it from a centrosymmetric position, there by generating a dipole locally . 21 24 Even very small distortions from centrosymmetric to non -centrosymmetric structures can potentially lead to an induced dipole in the perovskite crystal lattice . Thus, a necessary condition for such a perovskite material to be ferroelectric is non -centrosymmetric and polar, so that it can exhibit spontaneous polarization. Resultant spontaneous polarization can create a built -in electric field to separate the photogenerated carriers spatially without applying external bias . 25,26 As a result, steady short -circuit current and large open -circuit voltage can be obtained in the orientation of spontaneous polarization. Such ferroelectricity induced photovoltaic s has emerged as an indispensable branch of new optoelectronic devices. To date, the ferroelectric photovoltaic effect has been observed in oxide perovskites such as bismuth ferrite (BiFeO 3), lead zirconate titanate (Pb(ZrTi)O 3) and barium titanate (BaTiO 3) 3 showing the polarization -sensitive activity with a promise for polarized light detection . 27 29 A unique characteristic of ferroelectric photovoltaic devices is that the photocurrent direction can be reversed by changing the spontaneous polarization direction of a ferroelectric material with the application of a n electric field. Recent developments into ferroelectric photovoltaic include above band gap photovoltaics of BiFeO 3 (BFO ) using symmetric platinum top electrodes , 15 bulk photovoltaic effect (BPV E) of BiFeO 3, 28 non-volatile memory using BiFeO 3. 30 Beyond the se oxide ferroelectrics , giant switchable photovoltaic effect was observed from hybrid halide perovskite MAPbI 3 under illumination . 31,3 2 Anomalous photovoltaic effect was observed from MAPbBr 3(or MAPbI 3 and CsPbBr 3) thin films, which was not caused by ferroelectricity , rather formation of tunneling junctions as a result of ion migration in the randomly dispersed polycrystalline film resulted in accumulation of photovoltage . 33 Biaxial 2D hybrid perovskitesferroelectric ,(iso-pentylammonium) 2(ethylammonium) 2Pb3I10 (PEPI), exhibited self - driven photodetection in the visible range owing to the large spontaneous polarization . 34 Self- powered UV photodetection was demonstrated using single crystal of 2D wide -band gap hybrid perovskite ferroelectric (BPA) 2PbBr 4 35 and 2D ferroelectric layered lead chloride hybrid perovskite, EA 4Pb3Cl10. 36 These s elf-powered devices rely on the use of asymmetric electrodes that leads to the separation of electrons and holes or poling by means of an external electric field to induce ferroelectric domain switching . Recently, all -inorganic perovskite materials have drawn a great attention due to their potential application in p hotovoltaics and optoelectronics . 37-39 However, it remains a challenge to realize ferroelectric photovoltaics with symmetric electrodes without poling by an external electric field and to the best of our knowledge, there is not yet any report of ferroelectric photovoltaics using all-inorganic halide perovskite nanocrystals (NCs) that operates in zero -bias condition . 4 Here ferroelectric photovoltaics is realized in a popular all -inorganic CsPbBr 3 NCs using symmetric electrodes in absence of an external electric field . We show that the CsPbBr 3 NCs exhibit ferroelectricity with a notable saturated polarization of 0.15 μC cm2
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Investment-based optimisation of energy storage design parameters in a grid-connected hybrid renewable energy system Sleiman Farah and Gorm Bruun Andresen Department of Mechanical and Production Engineering, Aarhus University, Denmark (Dated: September 6, 2023) Grid-connected hybrid renewable power systems with energy storage can reduce the intermittency of renewable power supply. However, emerging energy storage technologies need improvement to compete with lithium-ion batteries and reduce the cost of energy. Identifying and optimizing the most valuable improvement path of these technologies is challenging due to the non-linearity of the energy system model when considering parameters as independent variables. To overcome this, a novel investment-based optimisation method is proposed. The method involves linear optimiza- tion of the hybrid renewable energy system and subsequent investment optimization, accounting for diminishing improvements per investment. The results from applying the investment-based op- timisation to thermal energy, pumped thermal energy, molten salt, and adiabatic compressed air energy storage technologies, show that improving the discharge efficiency is the most valuable for all technologies. The second most important parameters are the costs of discharge capacity and energy storage capacity, and the least important parameters are the charge capacity cost and charge efficiency . The study provides detailed improvement pathways for each technology under various operational conditions, assisting developers in resource allocation. Overall, the investment-based optimization method and findings contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of emerging energy storage technologies and reducing reliance on batteries in renewable energy systems. I. INTRODUCTION Decarbonising the electricity grid by transitioning away from fossil fuels towards renewable energy sources is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change 1 . However, the integration of intermit- tent renewable power sources, such as solar and wind, increases the difficulty of managing the electricity grid and maintaining the balance of electricity supply and de- mand 2 . To alleviate the adverse effects of renewable energy integration into the grid, some recent tenders of grid- connected renewable energy systems now mandate that annual net energy supplied to the grid should exceed a minimum threshold specified by the grid-connection ca- pacity factor. Typically, the requirement exceeds the ca- pacity factor of local renewable resources 3 . For in- stance, a renewable energy system with 100 MW grid- connection capacity and 50 capacity factor should sup- ply at least 438 GWh net renewable electricity to the grid annually. To achieve the required energy supply for rela- tively low capacity factors, renewable energy systems are likely to consist of either, solar, wind, or a combination of both electricity sources depending on the availability of natural sources. However, for high capacity factors of the grid-connection, the capacities of renewable energy sources increase significantly, adversely affecting the eco- nomic viability of the system. Therefore, for high grid-connection capacity factors, i.e., high renewable energy penetration into the grid, en- ergy storage becomes important to compensate for the sleiman.farah mpe.au.dkintermittency of renewable electricity sources and for re- ducing the system capacities. Energy storage systems can store excess energy generated by renewable sources during periods of high generation, and supply the previ- ously stored energy into the grid when the renewable elec- tricity generation is low. This ability of energy storage systems reduces the undesirable intermittency effect and enables more efficient use of renewable energy sources. Several emerging energy storage technologies can ful- fill the role of reducing the intermittency of renewable energy sources. However, emerging technologies are typ- ically competing with lithium-ion batteries that exhibit excellent performance characteristics to fulfill the same role 4 6 . Lithium-ion batteries may dominate the en- ergy storage market especially that they are suitable for multiple applications that can increase their market pen- etration 4 . Therefore, from the perspective of energy storage de- velopers, identifying and improving important character- istics of emerging technologies is critical to be able to be- come competitive with lithium-ion batteries. Given lim- ited resources, however, should the development efforts be on improving technical characteristics or on reducing capacity costs for specific energy storage technologies? Energy storage developers are most likely interested in identifying the optimal distribution of resources or in- vestments to improve the characteristics of specific en- ergy storage technologies. The need for energy storage for renewable energy inte- gration into the electricity grid is highlighted in several studies 7 10 . The role of energy storage in the feasibility of renewable energy integration into the European elec- tricity network was analysed for different scenarios 7 . The average storage fraction was calculated as a function of variable renewable energy penetration using a polyno-arXiv:2309.02406v1 eess.SY 5 Sep 2023 2 mial regression model. The overall conclusion was that increasing the use of energy storage by energy storage market development and regulations is essential for suc- cessful renewable energy integration 7 . The role of energy storage in the European energy net- work was also modelled considering coupling of electric- ity, transport and heating sectors for various CO 2re- duction constraints 8 . The network was modelled in PyPSA-Eur-Sec-30 9 , considering hourly resolution and 30 European countries. The model calculated the opti- mal capacities and optimal power flows within the energy network. The results showed that sector coupling reduces the need for large energy storage capacities which become necessary at high CO 2reductions 8 . The aforementioned studies reveal the importance of energy storage systems especially with high penetration of renewable energy. However, these studies do not in- vestigate the effect of energy storage parameters at the technology level, i.e., they do not analyse the effect of design parameters of energy storage technologies. Such analysis was conducted considering two energy systems in the United States of America 10 . Discrete combi- nations of efficiency and cost values for existing and po- tential future long-duration energy storage technologies were utilised in an electricity system capacity expansion model. The analysed parameter combinations achieved different system values defined as reductions in the total electricity system. These reductions were utilised in a regression model to identify the order of significance of the storage parameters. The energy capacity cost
__label__energy	MPC-based Reinforcement Learning for Economic Problems with Application to Battery Storage Arash Bahari Kordabad, Wenqi Cai, Sebastien Gros Abstract In this paper, we are interested in optimal control problems with purely economic costs, which often yield optimal policies having a (nearly) bang-bang structure. We focus on policy approximations based on Model Predictive Control (MPC) and the use of the deterministic policy gradient method to optimize the MPC closed-loop performance in the presence of unmodelled stochasticity or model error. When the policy has a (nearly) bang-bang structure, we observe that the policy gradient method can struggle to produce meaningful steps in the policy parameters. To tackle this issue, we propose a homo- topy strategy based on the interior-point method, providing a relaxation of the policy during the learning. We investigate a speciﬁc well-known battery storage problem, and show that the proposed method delivers a homogeneous and faster learning than a classical policy gradient approach. I. I NTRODUCTION Making decisions for the energy system in the presence of different forms of uncertainty is the object of recent publications 1 , 2 . In smart grids, the uncertainty mainly arises from the imperfect forecasts for the prices, demand, and power generation. Finding a policy minimizing the economic cost of operating the grid in the presence of these uncertainties is highly valuable 3 . Economic costs for smart grids are linear, based on the difference between the proﬁt made by selling electricity to the power grid, and the losses incurred from buying it 4 . Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers tools for tackling Markov Decision Processes (MDP) without having an accu- rate knowledge of the probability distribution underlying the state transition 5 , 6 . RL seeks to optimize the parameters underlying a given policy in view of minimizing the expected discounted sum of a given baseline stage cost L(s;a)2R, wheres;aare the system states and inputs. RL methods are usually either directly based on an approximation of the optimal policy or indirectly based on an approximation of the action-value function. Policy gradient methods directly seek to ﬁnd the optimal policy parameters 7 , 8 . Different variants of Temporal Difference (TD) methods are at the core of many RL techniques for estimating the different value functions associated to the MDP. Least-Squares Temporal- Difference (LSTD) techniques are widely used because of their reliability and efﬁcient use of data 9 . Model Predictive Control (MPC) is a control strategy that employs a (possibly inaccurate) model of the real system dynamics to produce an input-state sequence over a given The authors are with Department of Engineering Cybernetics, Norwe- gian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway. E- mail:fArash.b.kordabad,wenqi.cai,sebastien.gros g ntnu.noﬁnite horizon such that the resulting predicted state trajectory minimizes a given cost function while explicitly enforcing the input-state constraints imposed on the system trajectories 10 . The problem is solved at each time instant, and only the ﬁrst input of the input sequence is applied on the real system. By solving the entire problem at each time instant based on the current state of the system in a receding-horizon fashion, MPC delivers a policy for the real system. For computational reasons, simple models are usually preferred in the MPC scheme. Hence, the MPC model often does not have the structure required to correctly capture the real system dynamics and stochasticity. As a result, MPC usually delivers a reasonable but suboptimal approximation of the optimal policy. Choosing the MPC parameters that maximises the closed-loop performance for the selected MPC formulation is a difﬁcult problem. Indeed, e.g. selecting the MPC model parameters that best ﬁt the model to the real system is not guaranteed to yield the best closed- loop performance that the MPC scheme can achieve 11 . In 12 , 11 , it is shown that adjusting the MPC model, cost and constraints can be beneﬁcial to achieve the best closed-loop performances, and RL is proposed as a possible approach to perform that adjustment in practice. Further recent research have focused on MPC-based policy approximation for RL 13 , 14 , 15 , 12 . MPC is a promising choice for the management of smart grids 2 , because it provides a simple way to exploit forecasts on the grid prices, local power demand, and production, while respecting the physical limitations of the system. The stochasticity of the forecasts uncertainty is, however, not straightforward to treat at low computational costs. In this paper, we investigate a simple, well-known battery storage problem having a purely economic cost and stochastic dynamics. This example is has an optimal policy with a nearly bang-bang structure 16 , in the sense that the optimal policy selects inputs that are either in the bounds or zero for a large subset of the state space. We show that the deterministic policy gradient method is difﬁcult to use for this type of problem because the state trajectories mostly lie in the set where the policy is trivially zero or in the bounds, which impedes the learning. In this paper we propose a homotopy strategy based on the interior-point method 17 , which smoothens the MPC policy via the barrier parameter associated to the method, allowing for a more homogeneous and faster learning. The policy smoothing is gradually removed over the learning to recover the optimal policy. The paper is structured as follows. Section II presents the battery storage dynamics andarXiv:2104.02411v1 cs.LG 6 Apr 2021 provides its optimal policy of an economic cost. Section III formulates the LSTD-based deterministic policy gradient method. Section IV details the use of MPC-scheme as a function approximator in RL. The difﬁculties of applying the policy gradient method for (nearly) bang-bang policies is analyzed. And the main contribution of this paper is presented. Section V provides the simulation results for the proposed approach and compares with the classical implementation of the policy gradient methods. Finally, section VI delivers the conclusions. II. A SIMPLE MOTIVATIONAL EXAMPLE Photovoltaic (PV) battery systems allow households to participate in a more sustainable energy system 2 .
__label__energy	Accounting for carbon capture solvent cost and energy demand in the energy system V. Chanal1a, , S. Humpage1a, M. Millingera,b aDepartment of Space Earth and Environment, Chalmers University of Technology, G oteborg, Sweden bBuilt Environment: System Transition: Energy Systems Analysis, RISE Research Institutes of Sweden, G oteborg, Sweden Abstract Technical carbon dioxide removal through bioenergy with carbon capture or direct air capture plays a role in virtually all climate mitigation scenarios. Both of these technologies rely on the use of chemical solvents or sorbents in order to capture CO 2. Lately, concerns have surfaced about the cost and energy implications of producing solvents and sorbents at scale. Here, we show that the production of chemical sorbents could have significant implications on system cost, energy use and material use depending on how much they are consumed. Among the three chemical sorbents investigated, namely monoethanolamine (MEA) for post- combustion carbon capture, potassium hydroxide for liquid direct air capture and polyethylenimine-silica (PEI) for solid sorbent direct air capture, we found that the production of the compound for solid sorbent direct air capture represent the highest uncertainties for the system. At the high range of solid sorbent consumption, total energy system cost increased by up to 6.5 , while effects for other options were small to negligible. Scale-up of material production capacities was also substantial for MEA and PEI. Implications of sorbent consumption for carbon capture technologies should be considered more thoroughly in scenarios relying on direct air capture using a solid sorbent. Keywords: direct air capture, post-combustion, CCU, CCS, sorbent 1. Introduction Carbon capture plays a key role in virtually all climate mitigation scenarios limiting the global mean temperature increase to 1.5oC and 2oC compared to pre-industrial levels 1 . Captured carbon can be sequestered to avoid fossil emissions to the atmosphere, or to provide carbon dioxide removal (CDR) if the carbon stems from biomass (BECCS) or direct air capture (DACCS). Alternatively, utilisation of captured carbon (CCU) provides raw material to production of fuels and chemicals, and contributes to increasing carbon efficiency of scarce biogenic carbon 2 . In the IPCC Illustrative Mitigation Pathways that limit warming to 2oC or lower between 168 763 GtCO 2and 0 339 GtCO 2are sequestered in this century through BECCS and DACCS, respectively 1 , corresponding to an annual average of 6-26 and 0-11 of 2024 global CO2emissions 3 . Studies with sector-coupled energy system models also include CCU and arrive at 1-6 Gt annual carbon capture by mid-century globally 4, 5 , or 390-800 Mt for Europe 6, 7, 8 . However, carbon capture technology has yet to be proven at scale. 51 Mt carbon capture capacity is in place in 2024, mainly in fossil applications for enhanced oil recovery 9 . 30 Mt bioenergy with carbon capture (BECC) 10 and 65 Mt DAC 11 is being planned world-wide. Besides expansion challenges 12 , high cost and energy demand and resource limitations 2 , carbon capture requires the use of solvents or sorbents which capture CO 2from either syngas (pre-combustion), flue gases (post-combustion), or from the atmosphere (direct air capture, DAC). 1These authors contributed equally Corresponding author Email address: vincentc chalmers.se (V. Chanal) Preprint submitted to Elsevier November 15, 2024arXiv:2411.09520v1 physics.soc-ph 14 Nov 2024 While solvents for post-combustion carbon capture have been proven at commercial scale, solvents and sorbents for DAC have been less researched and deployed. Uncertainties regarding costs 13, 14 as well as energy and material requirements 15 related to solvents and sorbents are substantial. For example, Chatterjee Huang 15 estimated that the energy demand of material production and solvent regeneration alone may amount to 12-20 and 34-51 of global energy demand, respectively, signaling that these aspects deserve a closer analysis. Despite the large role played by carbon capture in modeled mitigation scenarios, uncertainty regarding solvents has thus far received little attention, and costs and energy use of solvent production has not explicitly been taken into account in such studies. This study aims to quantify the effect of cost and energy use uncertainties of solvents and sorbents for carbon capture on the cost-competitiveness of carbon capture technologies and on energy system cost. 2. Methods 2.1. Data This study focuses on three different carbon capture technologies each using one solvent or sorbent: post-combustion carbon capture using a monoethanolamine (MEA) solvent; L-DAC, a high-temperature direct air capture using the liquid solvent potassium hydroxide (KOH); S-DAC, a low-temperature direct air capture using a polyethylenimine (PEI) on silica solid sorbent. The solvent and sorbent production methods were estimated based on currently available technologies (Fig. 1). Liquid direct air capture Power plants (Fossil, bio, waste)CO2 storage utlization Pre-combustion (gasification)Chlor-alkali processKOH EO production MEA production Haber-BoschPEI productionSolid direct air capturePEI EO Steam cracking MEAOil Ethylene NH3CO2 Figure 1: Model representation of solvent and sorbent production in this study. The base version with less detail is highlighted by red dashed box. S-DAC and L-DAC data (except those related to solvent and sorbent consumption) account for tech- nological learning and economies of scale for a total scale of 1 Gt of global carbon capture capacity, based on Young et al. 13 . Post-combustion carbon capture data were obtained from the Danish Energy Agency database 16 . The provision and consumption of solvents or sorbents are isolated from the other costs and considered separately in the analysis. In this work, an optimistic and a pessimistic scenarios represent the lower and the higher bounds for costs and energy use. Post-combustion MEA consumption ranges between 0.27-3.98 kg tCO 2 17 . Consumption 2 values of KOH for L-DAC ranges between 0.4 kg tCO 2 18, 19 and 38 kg tCO 2 20 and are assumed to represent the value range. S-DAC sorbent consumption ranges between 2.3-14 kg t CO2, based on an esti- mated lifetime range of 0.5-3 years 20 . Another estimate based on data from Climeworks of 3-7.5 kg tCO 2 21 falls within this range, although the full range of 2.3-14 kg tCO 2is used in this work to represent the uncertainty.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 1 Optimal Energy Management in Autonomous Power Systems with Probabilistic Security Constraints and Adaptive Frequency Control Spyridon Chapaloglou, Erick Alves, Senior Member, IEEE , Vincenzo Trovato, Member, IEEE , and Elisabetta Tedeschi, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The decarbonization of many heavy power- consuming industries is dependent on the integration of re- newable energy sources and energy storage systems in isolated autonomous power systems. The optimal energy management in such schemes becomes harder due to the increased complexity and stability requirements, the rapidly varying operating con- ditions and uncertainty of renewable sources, the conﬂicting objectives across different timescales, the limited amount of reliable power sources and energy storage. The state of charge management when energy storage is used for multiple services, such as optimal scheduling and frequency support, is one of the most notorious problems in this context. To address this issue, an optimal energy management system is proposed in this paper. It co-optimizes the primary frequency control layer and the dispatch schedule of conventional generators and energy storage by taking advantage of an algorithm that provides adaptive active power demand uncertainty quantiﬁcation, theoretical guarantees for frequency stability, and bounds for the reserves for frequency support assigned to the energy storage system. A convex refor- mulation is derived enabling the efﬁcient solution of the involved optimization problem, being a test case of an isolated offshore oil and gas platform presented for validation. Index Terms power generation dispatch, energy management, load forecasting, power system stability, adaptive control. I. I NTRODUCTION TAKING optimal decisions to reduce i)fuel consumption, ii)greenhouse gases emissions, iii)equipment degrada- tion and iv)system insecurity in power systems with a high share of renewable energy sources (RESs) is an intricate task. This endeavor requires the solution of problems such as the unit commitment (UC) 1 , economic dispatch (ED) 2 , and allocation of reserves for frequency control 3 , resulting in complex non-convex optimization formulations. Those have typically conﬂicting objectives, continuous and binary decision variables, and high uncertainty from particular nodes, such as This research was funded by: 1) VISTA - a basic research program in collaboration between The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, and Equinor; 2) the Onassis Foundation - Scholarship ID: F ZP 056-1 2019-2020; 3) the Research Council of Norway under the program PETROMAKS2, grant number 281986, project Innovative Hybrid Energy System for Stable Power and Heat Supply in Offshore Oil and Gas Installation (HESOFF) . S. Chapaloglou, E. Alves, and E. Tedeschi are with the Department of Electric Power Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technol- ogy, 7034 Trondheim, Norway, e-mail: (see https: www.ntnu.edu employees spyridon.chapaloglou). V . Trovato is with the Department of Civil, Environ- mental and Mechanical Engineering at University of Trento and with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Imperial College London. E. Tedeschi is with the Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Trento, 38123 Trento, Italy.loads and RESs. Reliability can, for instance, be increased where more dispatchable units, such as gas turbines (GTs), are kept online for longer periods, as they respond well to fast variations of loads and RESs. This action may, however, increase fuel consumption, emissions, and equipment degra- dation, affecting negatively operational expenditure (OPEX). When compared to traditional bulk power systems (BPSs), this type of optimization can have different characteristics in autonomous power systems (APSs), such as isolated industrial plants, oil and gas (O G) platforms, ships, islands, and community microgrids. Due to the size and complexity of the problem, several challenges exist in BPSs to implement real-time, advanced algorithms for optimal dispatch and real- time allocation of frequency reserves 4 . Such problems can however be addressed in many APSs due to the limited num- ber of dispatchable power sources, which typically provide simultaneously several ancillary services. The methods for allocation of frequency reserves and tuning of the system damping may also differ considerably between BPS and APS. The system damping is, in the former, adapted using binary decision variables which switch on and off units having a ﬁxed active power-frequency droop, as usually the individual contribution of each unit to the total damping is small. In the latter, the droop of individual units may represent a large portion of the system damping, being therefore necessary to readjust them in real-time using integer variables to obtain optimal results. Optimization objectives and decisions in APSs may also be coupled and affected by constraints in different time scales, being energy storage systems (ESSs) remarkable examples of equipment that enhances such dependencies. ESSs can, for instance, provide increased ﬂexibility towards the optimal scheduling of fossil-based energy sources and avoid prolonged operation in partial loads, where emissions are much higher. They can also be assigned as spinning reserves for frequency control, which would require less GTs on for the same system security requirements and increase environmental gains even further. Where these two grid services are provided simultaneously, the scheduled trajectory of the ESS state of energy (SoE) may be disturbed, affecting the optimality or even the feasibility of the original schedule. To decide in BPSs the effect that the provision of frequency reserves has on the ESS optimal schedule, scenarios such as the worst- case active power disturbance (APD) or the N-1 criterion are many times used 3 , 5 . These criteria can howeverarXiv:2208.08953v1 eess.SY 18 Aug 2022 JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 2 be over-conservative in APSs 6 and the capital expenditure necessary for a fully-ﬂedged ESS may not justify its bene- ﬁts, being some probability of load shedding and generation curtailment acceptable many times 7 . When it comes to energy management in APSs with high penetration of RES, there is therefore a need and potential for better assessment of frequency stability requirements as well as coordination and scheduling of reserves. A. Literature review The integration of frequency stability constraints in the scheduling phase of BPSs with high penetration of RES has been an active area of
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	1 Modelling and Characterisation of Flexibility from Distributed Energy Resources Shariq Riaz, Senior Member, IEEE, and Pierluigi Mancarella, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Harnessing ﬂexibility from distributed energy re- sources (DER) to participate in various markets while accounting for relevant technical and commercial constraints is essential for the development of low-carbon grids. However, there is no clear deﬁnition or even description of the salient features of aggregated DER ﬂexibility, including its steady-state and dynamic features and how these are impacted by network constraints and market requirements. This paper proposes a comprehensive DER ﬂexibility modelling and characterisation framework that is based on the concept of nodal operating envelope (NOE). In particular, capacity, ramp, duration and cost are identiﬁed as key ﬂexibility metrics and associated with different but consistent NOEs describing capability ,feasibility ,ramp ,duration ,economic , technical and commercial ﬂexibility features. These NOEs, which conceptually arise from a Venn diagram, can be built via optimal power ﬂow (OPF) analysis, visualised in the active-reactive power space, and used by different stakeholders. Results from a canonical test system and a real distribution system illustrate the value and applicability of the proposed framework to model and characterise provision of ﬂexibility and market services from DER for different use cases. Index Terms Aggregation, distributed energy resources (DER), distributed energy marketplace, ﬂexibility, nodal oper- ating envelope (NOE), TSO-DSO interface, virtual power plant. I. I NTRODUCTION ADV ANCEMENT in smart grid technologies is enhanc- ing observability and controllability over distributed en- ergy resources (DER), generating opportunity for distribu- tion systems to adopt a more active role and provide op- erational ﬂexibility to renewables-rich grids 1 4 . Various aggregation mechanisms such as virtual power plant (VPP) and transmission and distribution system operator (TSO and DSO) interactions seek to overcome the integration challenges through aggregation of DER and participation in distributed energy marketplaces 2 7 . However, despite several works tackling VPP participation in different markets 8 , 9 , har- nessing multi-energy-vector ﬂexibility 10 , proposing active monitoring and real-time control 11 , and managing DER uncertainty 6 , 12 14 , the actual capacity and constraints of DER aggregations (DERA) to participate in multiple mar- kets has rarely been discussed 15 . Furthermore, only a few works, in the context of TSO-DSO interactions, have sought to address the operational ability of DERA while The authors gratefully acknowledge the partial support for this research received from the Victorian Government s veski program and John Theunissen from Ausnet Services for the insightful discussions on the topic. Shariq Riaz and Pierluigi Mancarella are with The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 3010, Victoria, Australia. E-mails: fshariq.riaz, pier- luigi.mancarella g unimelb.edu.au. Pierluigi Mancarella is also with the De- partment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The University of Manch- ester, Manchester M13 9PL, U.K. E-mail: p.mancarella manchester.ac.uk.considering network constraints 1 4 , 15 17 . This is however essential for all the discussions concerning distributed energy markets, besides TSO DSO integrated operation. Operational ﬂexibility has generally been deﬁned in 18 as the technical ability of a component to regulate its power exchange with the grid . A more detailed deﬁnition is pre- sented in 19 , identifying response time and cost as ﬂexibility metrics. Similarly, the capacity-ramp-energy ﬂexibility metric triplet was proposed in 18 , 20 , but with no reference to cost. Furthermore, the existing literature largely investigates ﬂexibility metrics at the system level, ignoring the impacts of the network 18 , 20 or reactive power 18 20 . Generally speaking, there is no clear deﬁnition or even description of the salient features of DERA ﬂexibility, in- cluding its steady-state and dynamic aspects and how these are impacted by network constraints and market requirements. The impact on DERA market participation from limited ramp rate 15 and energy availability 5 may for example be signif- icant. It is in this context that it may be beneﬁcial to recognise the distinct role of steady-state ﬂexibility and dynamic aspects of ﬂexibility, where steady-state ﬂexibility indicates the possibility to operate within a certain operational envelope regardless of temporal factors, 15 , while dynamic ﬂexibility also accounts for time-varying aspects. This could include notice time to deliver ﬂexibility, minimum time to reach a new operating point ( speed to change the operating state, in case already including the notice time too), the maximum duration for which the new operating point can be sustained, etc. 15 , 21 . However, despite their key importance, these dynamic aspects of ﬂexibility are only sometimes considered in studies focused at the system level 22 , 23 and only recently for works modelling distribution level ﬂexibility 24 , 25 . In line with but also expanding general system ﬂexibility concepts, we can then identify capacity ,ramp ,duration and cost as key metrics to assess DERA ﬂexibility. Furthermore, ﬂexibility assessment at the distribution level calls for ex- plicit consideration of reactive power and network constraints, which can be evaluated and visualised in active-reactive (P-Q) space 1 5 , 15 17 , 26 . The concept of P-Q charts was ﬁrst developed in 27 to represent power exchange between TSO and DSO, and different applications have been proposed, including a P-Q chart-based planning and operational method- ology to deal with uncertainty for reserve provision 14 . However, all of these works only focused on the capacity metric, ignoring dynamics and cost aspects of ﬂexibility. Dynamic aspects of ﬂexibility are also ignored by 2 , 4 when building ﬂexibility P-Q cost maps as an effective information exchange tool between TSO and DSO.arXiv:2107.05144v1 eess.SY 11 Jul 2021 2 On the above premises, and bearing in mind the distinction between virtual physical (i.e., without with consideration for the presence of the network) aggregation introduced in the FENIX project 28 , this paper proposes a comprehensive framework to model, describe, characterise and quantify the ﬂexibility that could be provided upstream by a DERA consid- ering all relevant ﬂexibility metrics, technical and commercial aspects, steady-state and dynamic characteristics, and network restrictions. To do so, we introduce the concept of nodal
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	SSGMT: A Secure Smart Grid Monitoring Technique Sohini Roy Arizona State University, Tempe AZ 85281, USA sroy39 asu.edu Abstract. Critical infrastructure systems like power grid require an improved critical information infrastructure (CII) that can not only help in monitoring of the critical entities but also take part in failure analysis and self -healing. Effi- cient designing of a CII is challenging as each kind of communication technol- ogy has its own advantages and disadvantages. Wired networks are highly scal- able and secure, but they are neither cost effective nor dynamic in nature. Wire- less communication technologies on the other h and are easy to deploy, low cost etc. but they are vulnerable to cyber -attacks. In order to optimize cost, power consumption, dynamic nature, accuracy and scalability a hybr id communication network is designed in this paper where a portion of the communica tion net- work is built using wireless sensor networks (WSN) and the rest is a wired net- work of fiber optic channels. To offer seamless operation of the hybrid commu- nication network and provide security a Secure Smart Grid Monitoring Tech- nique (SSGMT) is als o proposed. The performance of the proposed hybrid CII for the generation and transmission system of power grid coupled with the SSGMT during different cyber -attacks is tested using NS2 simulator. The simu- lation results show that the SSGMT for a joint powe r communication network of IEEE 118 -Bus system performs better than the prevailing wireless CIIs like Lo-ADI and Modified AODV. Keywords: Critical Information Infrastructure, Wireless Sensor Network, Cyber -attacks, Remote Monitoring, Smart sensor nodes, Sm art Grid. 1 Introduction An improved and efficient Critical Information Infrastructure (CII) for a Critical In- frastructure System (CIS) gives birth to a smart CIS. It is the incorporation of features like full-duplex communication between the CII entities by the addition of embedded systems, automated metering in the smart homes , power distribution automation , per- vasive monitoring etc., that converts a traditional power grid to a smart grid system. I t is beyond any question that the CII of a smart grid must be accurate, scalable, and secure enough to instantly identify any kind of abnormal behavior in the entities of the power network, securely communicate that information to the control center and thereby help in taking necessary and timely action to ensure uninterrupted power supply. As a result, finding the best suited design of a robust CII for smart grid has become a boiling topic of research. In 1 a c rude idea of the design of a joint power - 2 communication network is given using a test system consisting of 14 buses. Yet, the ground level details of the CII system are missing . The authors of 2 , have come up with a realistic design of the CII of a smart grid by taking help from a power utility in the U.S. Southwest ; their CII system relies comp letely on wired channels that either use SONET -over-Ethernet or Ethernet -over-Dense Wavelength Division Multiplex- ing. However, a completely wired CII is neither cost effective nor energy saving. Every CII entity in 2 draws power and thus a huge amount of power is devoted for monitoring the power network itself. Moreover, isolation of CII entities during a fail- ure or a security threat and addition of a new entity in the network for hardening pur- pose or fault tolerance is extremely difficult and costly in a wired system. Smart sensor s like Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) are already gaining popular- ity in smart grid system for measuring electrical waves. Power generation and trans- mission, power quality, equipment fitness, load capacity of equipment and load bal- ancing in the grid can also be monitored by data sensing techniques. WSNs are com- prised of low powered sensor nodes with easy installation process, lesser maintenance requirement, low installation cost, low power profile, high accuracy and scalability . All these have convinced the researchers that WSNs are a very good choice for the designing of the CII of a smart grid. However, t he most common drawba ck of a sen- sor node is that it is battery powered and it is not easy to replace its dead battery. As a result, energy conservation becomes important. In the proposed work, energy effi- ciency is obtained by both energy aware routing technique for Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) data transmission and by the use of more expensive rechargeable Energy Harvesting Relay Nodes (EHRNs) for PMU data transmission to the Control Centers (CC) . Also, t he nodes a nd wireless channels are vulnerable to cyber -attacks. Some of the common cyber -attacks in WSNs are discussed in 3 . In this paper, a hybrid CII is designed in which a WSN based communication net- work is used between a sens ing unit placed at a substation like a Remote Terminal Unit (RTU) or a PMU an d a regional aggregation point like a Regional Sink node (RS) or Phasor Data Concentrator; and optical fiber based communication is used between the regional aggregation point and the CCs. SSG MT aims at securing the sensed data by means of light weight security protocols used in 4 like Elliptic - Curve -Public -Key Cryptography (ECC), Elliptic -Curve -Diffie -Helman Key exchange scheme (ECDH), Nested H ash Message Authentication Codes ( NHMAC) and RC5 symmetric cypher. The rest of the paper is str uctured as follows. Section 2 gives an overview of the CII system setup phase for SSGMT . Mitigation of different threats to the proposed network design is discussed in section 3 by adopting a secure routing technique . Sec- tion 4 does performance analysis of the proposed scheme S SGMT by means of com- paring the simulation results with other existing secure remote monitoring technique for power grid like Lo-ADI 5 and Modified AODV 6 . Sections 5 concludes the paper and discusses the scope for future works. 3 2 Overview of the CII system
__label__energy	1 Abstract Detailed knowledge of the energy needs at relatively high spatial and temporal resolution is crucial for the electricity infrastructure planning of a region. However, such information is typically limited by the scarcity of data on human activities, in particular in developing countries where electrification of rural areas is sought. The analysis of society-wide mobile phone records has recently proven to offer unprecedented insights into the spatio-temporal distribution of people, but this information has never been used to support electrification planning strategies anywhere and for rural areas in developing countries in particular. The aim of this project is the assessment of the contribution of mobile phone data for the development of bottom-up energy demand models, in order to enhance energy planning studies and existing electrification practices. More specifically, this work introduces a framework that combines mobile phone data analysis, socioeconomic and geo-referenced data analysis, and state-of-the-art energy infrastructure engineering techniques to assess the techno-economic feasibility of different centralized and decentralized electrification options for rural areas in a developing country. Specific electrification options considered include extensions of the existing medium voltage (MV) grid, diesel engine-based community-level Microgrids, and individual household-level solar photovoltaic (PV) systems. The framework and relevant methodology are demonstrated throughout the paper using the case of Senegal and the mobile phone data made available for the D4D-Senegal innovation challenge. The results are extremely encouraging and highlight the potential of mobile phone data to support more efficient and economically attractive electrification plans. Index Terms Electrification, human dynamics, mobile phone data, cellular networks, Microgrids, Photovoltaics I. INTRODUCTION etailed knowledge of the energy needs at relatively high spatial and temporal resolution is crucial for the adequate energy infrastructure planning of a country. This is particularly relevant to the electrification of developing regions where new infrastructure needs to be built to foster socio-economic growth. However, such information is typically limited by the scarcity of comprehensive data on E. A. Martinez-Cesena and P. Mancarella are with the University of Manchester, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Electrical Energy and Power Systems Group, Manchester, M13 9PL UK (e-mail: eduardo.martinezcesena; p.mancarella manchester.ac.uk). M. Ndiaye is with the Ecole supérieure polytechnique de Dakar UCAD, Centre International de Formation et de Recherche en Energie Solaire, 5085 Dakar-Fann, Senegal (e-mail: emamadoulamine.ndiaye ucad.edu.sn). M. Schläpfer is with the Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM 87501 USA (e-mail: schlaepfer santafe.edu). human activities. In this respect, during recent years the increasing availability of mobile phone data has proven to provide unprecedented insights into the mobility patterns of people and the distribution of the population in space and time 1 3 . Not surprisingly, this type of data has thus been hinted as promising for the design and operation of smart infrastructures 4 and energy systems 5 . However, to the authors knowledge no quantitative study has so far investigated the potential applicability of mobile phone data for energy infrastructure planning, particularly in developing countries where cellular network data can actually be much more advanced than energy consumption data. For instance, taking Senegal as a typical case of a developing country, during the last decade its mobile phone usage has increased dramatically from 1.7 million subscribers in 2005 to 13.1 million in 2013, thus covering about 95 of the countries 14 million inhabitants 6 . In stark contrast to this upsurge in mobile communication, about half of the total population still has no access to electricity, and the electrification rate in rural areas is even as low as 28 7 . Therefore, there is a clear potential to use mobile phone data for predicting a region s energy demand and supporting its electrification process. In particular, compared to current approaches for electricity planning in developing countries t h a t u s e , f o r i n s t a n c e , satellite imagery, mobile phone data can provide substantially more accurate information on the spatio-temporal activity centers 2 , which could be combined with socioeconomic, geo-referenced or climate data f o r e l e c t r i f i c a t i o n p l a n n i n g purposes in both urban and rural areas. On these premises, the aim of this work is the assessment of the potential use of mobile phone data to support rural electrification planning in developing countries. Specific objectives include the assessment of i) the suitability of mobile phone data as a proxy for current and future electricity needs and whether ii) this information can lead to more economical and more efficient electrification options. To that end, we develop a framework that brings together in an innovative way mobile phone data analysis, socio-economic and geo-referenced data analysis, and state-of-the-art energy infrastructure engineering techniques to quantify the techno-economic feasibility of different centralized and decentralized electrification options in developing countries. The electrification options considered h e r e i n c l u d e e x t e n s i o n s o f the existing Medium Voltage (MV) grid ( centralized option), development of diesel engine-based community-level Microgrids, and installation of individual dwelling-level solar Using Mobile Phone Data for Electricity Infrastructure Planning Eduardo Alejandro Martinez-Cesena, Pierluigi Mancarella, Mamadou Ndiaye, and Markus Schläpfer D 2photovoltaic (PV) systems ( decentralized options). The proposed methodology is clearly demonstrated throughout the report by taking the case of Senegal as representative of developing countries. The report is organized as follows. The next section provides an overview of the different available D4D-Senegal datasets, as well as the electricity context of Senegal, which provides the baseline for this work. Section III presents a high level description of the electrification planning methodology based on mobile phone data proposed in this work. The methodology involves the assessment of i) the energy requirements of Senegal, ii) the correlation between mobile phone data and electricity needs, iii) the population migration towards electrified areas and iv) the electrification potential. These steps are further detailed in Sections IV VII. Section VIII describes possible follow-up studies that
__label__energy	Cost-benefit Analysis And Comparisons For Different Offshore Wind Energy Transmission Systems Jesus Silva-Rodriguez1 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Houston Houston, TX, USA jasilvarodriguez uh.edu Jin Lu1 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Houston Houston, TX, USA jlu27 cougarnet.uh.edu Xingpeng Li Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Houston Houston, TX, USA xli82 uh.edu Abstract This paper investigates how to efficiently and economically deliver offshore energy generated by offshore wind turbines to onshore. Both power cables and hydrogen energy facilities are analyzed. Each method is examined with the associated proposed optimal sizing model. A cost-benefit analysis is conducted, and these methods are compared under different scenarios. Three long-distance energy transmission methods are proposed to transmit offshore energy onshore, considering the capital operation costs for related energy conversion and transmission facilities. The first method that deploys power cables only is a benchmark method. The other two methods utilize a hydrogen supercenter (HSC) and transmit offshore energy to and onshore substation through hydrogen pipelines. For the second method, electrolyzers are placed at offshore wind farms connected to HSC with low-pressure hydrogen pipelines. For the third method, offshore wind power is distributed to the HSC and then converted into hydrogen using electrolyzers placed at the HSC. An offshore scenario including three wind farms located in the Gulf of Mexico and one onshore substation is used as the base test case. Numerical simulations are conducted over a planning period of 30 years using the proposed optimization models for each method separately. Simulation results show that the proposed hydrogen-based methods can effectively transmit offshore energy to the onshore substation. The distances between the wind farms can influence the selection and configuration of the offshore wind energy system. Moreover, the proposed study analyzes the cost and benefits for various systems with different energy carriers. It can also suggest which method could be the best candidate for offshore energy delivery system under which scenario and demonstrate a promising future for offshore wind power generation. Keywords Cost-benefit analysis, electrolyzer, fuel cell, HVDC, hydrogen pipeline, offshore Transmission System, offshore wind farm. Parameters 𝑁ௐ : Total number of wind farm locations. 𝐶௧ : Electricity locational marginal price. 𝑃 , : Power limit of each transmission line. 𝑉 : Voltage level at the receiving-end of each line. 𝑑 : Distance of each transmission line. 𝑅 : Resistance of each transmission line. 𝜂 : Efficiency of DC power converters. 𝐶𝑃 : Energy intensity of each electrolyzer. 𝐶𝑃 : Energy intensity of each fuel cell. 𝐶𝑃 : Energy consumption ratio of each compressor. 1 J. Silva-Rodriguez and J. Lu contributed equally to this work. 𝐻 , : Hydrogen flow limit of each pipeline. 𝑝 : Output pressure of all pipelines. 𝑇ᇱ: Mean gas temperature. 𝑑 : Distance of each pipeline. 𝐷 : Diameter of each pipeline. 𝐻𝑆௧: Storage level of hydrogen storage system. 𝐻𝑆 ௫: Maximum hydrogen storage limit. 𝐻𝑆 : Minimum hydrogen storage limit. 𝑃 ௧ , : Rated power of each electrolyzer. 𝑃 ௧ : Rated power of each fuel cell. Y: Considered service life (years) of the offshore system. Sets Indices 𝑇: Time period set. 𝐾: Offshore wind farms set. 𝑡: Time interval index. 𝑘: Wind farm location index. Variables 𝑉𝑃௧ : Total power delivered to onshore substation. 𝐶 : Total cost of offshore transmission network. 𝑃 ௨௧, ,௧ : Power output for each transmission line. 𝑁 : Number of transmission lines from each wind farm. 𝑃 , ,௧ : Power input for each transmission line. 𝑃 , ,௧ : Power input of each electrolyzer. 𝐻 ௨௧, ,௧ : Hydrogen flow output of each electrolyzer. 𝑃 ௨௧,௧ : Power output of each fuel cell. 𝐻 ,௧ : Hydrogen flow input of each fuel cell. 𝑃 ,௧ : Power consumption of each compressor. 𝐻 ,௧ : Hydrogen flow produced by each compressor. 𝐻 ௨௧, ,௧ : Hydrogen output for each pipeline. 𝑁 : Number of hydrogen pipelines from each wind farm. 𝑝 ,௧ : Input pressure of each pipeline. 𝐻 ,௧ : Hydrogen storage input flow. 𝐻 ௨௧,௧ : Hydrogen storage output flow. 𝑁 : Total number of electrolyzers. 𝑁 : Total number of fuel cells. I. INTRODUCTION Wind power is currently one of the most efficient and fast- growing renewable sources, however, it is limited primarily by land space and competing site usage. This is a factor that can be resolved with offshore wind farms. Offshore wind has experienced continuous growth in the last years, and this trend is expected to continue in the next future 1 . Despite the high efficiency and high wind power potential found offshore, one main challenge this technology presents is bringing the power into shore for distribution. Offshore wind farms can be connected to onshore grids via AC or DC power transmission, and the current common trend in research is that for relatively long distances High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) is the option with lower losses as well as minimal impact on grid disturbances 2-3 . Moreover, a HVDC point- to-point connection via voltage source converters (VSC) offers the cheapest option in terms of capital cost, in addition to operational advantages such as voltage control for a controlled DC power flow 3 . Another way that power can be transmitted is in the form of hydrogen. This process is known as power-to-gas, in which electrical power is used to generate hydrogen gas to be used as an energy carrier. In this way, energy can be delivered using hydrogen gas as a fuel, which inherently can be used as a means of energy storage, representing a cost-effective solution that can compete with battery energy storage systems 4 . Also, studies show that the hydrogen integrated grids can reduce both operation costs and CO 2 emissions 5-6 . Based on current research trends and practices, two main paths for wind power transmission from offshore to onshore can be via HVDC transmission lines or hydrogen pipelines. Both methods of offshore power transmission have been studied and compared in literature 7-9 , and
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	1 Local Synchronization of Power System Devices Ignacio Ponce, Student Member, IEEE , and Federico Milano, Fellow, IEEE Abstract This paper introduces a novel concept of local synchronization of power systems devices based on the dif- ference between the complex frequency of the voltage and current injected at terminals. Formal definitions are provided to account for bounded and asymptotic local synchronization. The definitions are suitable for modern power systems as they remove classical assumptions limiting the application of the concept of synchronization to synchronous machines and omitting voltage dynamics. The paper also provides a systematic analytical description of the synchronization mechanisms of common power system devices. Finally, a variety of examples is included to illustrate the theoretical value and practical application of the proposed definitions to power systems modeling and stability analysis. Index Terms Synchronization, power system modeling, com- plex frequency (CF). I. I NTRODUCTION In conventional power systems, the study of synchronization is substantially a synonym of transient stability analysis, the ultimate goal of which is to determine whether generators remain synchronized after a disturbance 1 . Specifically, the IEEE task force on the definition and classification of power system stability states: A machine keeps synchronism if the electromagnetic torque is equal and opposite to the mechanical torque delivered by the prime mover. Accordingly, this type of stability depends on the ability of the synchronous machines to maintain or restore the equilibrium between these two opposing torques 2 . The conventional understanding of synchronization no longer appears adequate for modern power systems. It falls short of capturing the high heterogeneity of devices influ- encing the system s transient behavior and does not take into account the dynamics of the amplitude of the voltage. For these reasons, in recent years, there has been a growing interest in revisiting the definition, interpretation and control of synchronization in power systems 3 8 . Two common features of recently proposed definitions are that they focus only on the voltage at the point of connection of a device with the grid; and neglect the power exchange between the device and the grid. This work proposes a general approach to define local synchronization based on the notion of complex frequency 9 of voltage and current at the point of connection of a device with the grid. A. Literature Review We review recent relevant works that have discussed the synchronization of power systems devices to the ac grid, specifically, power electronics converters. I. Ponce and F. Milano are with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University College Dublin, Belfield Campus, D04V1W8, Ireland. E-mails: ignacio.poncearancibia ucdconnect.ie, federico.milano ucd.ie This work is supported by the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) by funding I. Ponce and F. Milano under the project FRESLIPS, Grant No. RDD 00681.In 3 , the authors propose a model to study the global performance of synchronization in terms of industry-oriented metrics, such as nadir and RoCoF. This approach incorporates heterogeneous models of synchronous machines and accounts for turbine dynamics. However, it neglects voltage amplitude dynamics and uses a highly simplified system model. In 4 , the authors recognize the role of the dynamics of the magnitude of the voltage in synchronization and propose a novel approach to study the global synchronization of coupled oscillators founded on the seminal model of Kuramoto 10 . The goal is to study the stability of a specific control design for grid-forming converters, the dispatchable virtual oscillator control (dVOC) 11 . In 5 , the focus is on revealing the spectrum of the coupling matrix, identifying the conditions by which a negative eigen- value arises, which possibly causes a loss of synchronism. In 6 , the authors recognize synchronization and stability are different, and develop a criterion for achieving synchro- nization in micro-grids with heterogeneous characteristics. Particularly, 6 aims at analyzing the effect of topology on synchronizability , which they refer to as the robustness of synchronization against disturbances. However, this definition depends on restrictive assumptions on the system model and is limited to phase synchronization only. Other works incorporate the dynamics of the amplitude of the voltage by using the concept of the complex frequency (CF) 7 , 8 . The CF was recently formulated in 9 to provide a more general and precise definition of the frequency in power systems, and how it is linked to the complex power variations. Its formulation packs the full dynamics (in amplitude and phase) of dynamic vectors, vastly used to represent electrical quantities in power systems. The CF is finding applications in modeling 12 15 and control 16 18 of modern power systems. Despite remarkable advances made in 7 using the CF to improve their previous stability analysis of dVOC grid- forming converters, it still limits the use of the concept of synchronization to study specific models in a grid composed entirely by converters with the aforementioned control scheme. Another example of the use of CF to study synchronization is provided in 8 , which removes simplifications made in previous synchronization studies that omit voltage dynamics and rely on network-reduced ODE models 19 , 20 . The paper translates classical transient stability analysis to the achievement of a state of augmented synchronization of bus voltages, namely, the convergence to a constant rate of change of magnitude and phase in all buses rather than the states of synchronous machines converging to an a-priori known equilibrium. The focus is on bridging the gap between practitioners, who empirically check the voltage and frequency trajectories to assess transient stability, and theorists, who rely on the Lyapunov-based theory.arXiv:2407.02661v2 eess.SY 12 Nov 2024 2 B. Contributions We propose the novel concept of local synchronization. An important difference between our proposal and existing liter- ature is that rather than a system-wide condition or property of the system, synchronization is assessed locally for each device at the point of common coupling with the rest of the grid. The proposed local synchronization definition aims at complementing the definition of the mathematical conditions for a proper power system operation. A
__label__energy	Ferroelectric paraelectric superlattices for energy storage Hugo Aramberri,1, 2Natalya S. Fedorova,1, 2and Jorge I niguez1, 2, 3 1Materials Research and Technology Department, Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, 5 avenue des Hauts-Fourneaux, L-4362 Esch Alzette, Luxembourg 2Inter-institutional Research Group Uni.lu LIST on Ferroic Materials, 41 rue du Brill, L-4422 Belvaux, Luxembourg 3Department of Physics and Materials Science, University of Luxembourg, 41 Rue du Brill, L-4422 Belvaux, Luxembourg (Dated: December 3, 2021) The polarization response of antiferroelectrics to electric elds is such that the materials can store large energy densities, which makes them promising candidates for energy storage appli- cations in pulsed-power technologies. However, relatively few materials of this kind are known. Here we consider ferroelectric paraelectric superlattices as arti cial electrostatically-engineered antiferroelectrics. Speci cally, using high-throughput second-principles calculations, we engineer PbTiO 3 SrTiO 3superlattices to optimize their energy-storage performance at room temperature (to maximize density and release e ciency) with respect to di erent design variables (layer thick- nesses, epitaxial conditions, sti ness of the dielectric layer). We obtain results competitive with the state-of-the-art antiferroelectric capacitors and reveal the mechanisms responsible for the optimal properties. Introduction One of the limiting factors in the miniaturization of present day electronics is the relatively large size of their capacitors, due to their somewhat low energy density. Antiferroelectric materials could help solve this prob- lem1,2. These compounds present an antipolar structure of electric dipoles, yielding overall no net polarization P. Yet, applying a large enough electric eld can switch the system onto a polar state of large polarization (see Fig. 1). The energy density required to charge the system in this way ( Win) is proportional to the area to the left of the charging branch in the P- loop, which is indicated in purple in Fig. 1. Upon removal of the electric eld the released energy density is proportional to the area to the left of the discharge branch ( Wout, in green in the gure). The energy loss ( L) is therefore proportional to the area enclosed by the loop in the P- diagram (red- shaded area in Fig. 1). This eld-driven phase transition can be utilized in a capacitor with possible applications in pulsed power technologies3. Still, relatively few antifer- roelectrics are known2, which hampers the optimization of the e ect. Hence, there is a pressing need to discover new antiferroelectric materials. In the past years, several e orts have been devoted to improving the energy-storing performance of known an- tiferroelectrics. Polymers and ceramic polymer compos- ites can present high breakdown elds, but store modest energy densities and typically su er from poor thermal stability4,5. Several works have reported noticeable en- ergy densities in samples of hafnia- and zirconia-based antiferroelectrics6 10, although with modest e ciency Wout Windue to a strong hysteretic behaviour. A more promising route explored by many groups is chemical substitution in antiferroelectric perovskites11 22. To our best knowledge, the highest energy density in an antifer- roelectric experimentally achieved to date is 154 J cm 3 and corresponds to a complex perovskite solid solution17. Several works have found or predicted antiferroelectric-ity in electrostatically frustrated perovskite oxides. Anti- ferroelectric phases were measured in KNbO 3 KTaO 323 and SrTiO 3 BaZrO 324superlattices, though the former present scant thermal stability, and the latter display an- tiferroelectricity for very thin layers. Theoretical works have predicted the appearance of antipolar states in BaTiO 3 BaO superlattices25(though the electric eld re- sponse was not computed) or electrostatically engineered ferroelectric thin lms26(which display small stability re- gions). Still, the measured or predicted stability windows in these systems are rather narrow, leaving little room for optimization. In the last years, multidomain structures have been reported in PbTiO 3 SrTiO 3superlattices27 29. The ob- served dipole structures can be deemed antipolar, and hence these systems are good candidates to display antiferroelectric-like behaviour. These superlattices have attracted attention lately since they have been found to host negative capacitance30, non-trivial dipole topolo- gies29,31,32, and subterahertz collective dynamics33, with possible applications for voltage ampli cation and in electric- eld-driven data processing, among others. In this work we test the performance of ferro- electric paraelectric superlattices as arti cial antiferro- electrics for energy storage, taking PbTiO 3 SrTiO 3as a relevant model system. We show that the antipolar mul- tidomain state of these heterostructures can be switched to a monodomain polar one under an electric eld, yield- ing response curves similar to that of Figure 1, and thus displaying antiferroelectric-like behaviour. These superlattices o er multiple design variables, including the PbTiO 3and SrTiO 3layer thicknesses, the epitaxial strain imposed by a substrate, or the sti ness of the di- electric layer (which can be controlled through its compo- sition), which are expected to have a signi cant impact in their electrostatic response and thus in its performance as capacitors. We explore these optimization possibilities by using second-principles simulation methods (which havearXiv:2112.00745v1 cond-mat.mtrl-sci 1 Dec 2021 2 FIG. 1. Energy storage in P- loops. The energy density required to charge the system ( Win) is equal to the recov- ered energy density upon discharge ( Wout) plus the loss ( L). Energy densities are proportional to areas in P- diagrams. proven successful to describe these superlattices in previ- ous works29,30,34) to run a high-throughput investigation over these design variables. We also reveal the underlying physics yielding the best properties. Results In ferroelectric paraelectric superlattices with the po- larization easy axis along the growth direction, the devel- opment of a homogeneous polar state in the ferroelectric layer is hindered by the electrostatic penalty due to the surrounding dielectric layers. This often results in the ferroelectric component breaking into domains with op- posite local polarizations, as shown in Figure 2. The resulting state can be regarded as antipolar. Let us consider (PbTiO 3)m (SrTiO 3)nsuperlattices, wheremandnare the thicknesses (in perovskite unit cells) of the PbTiO 3and SrTiO 3layers, respectively, and let us take the (PbTiO 3)4 (SrTiO 3)4system as a repre- sentative case for the following discussion. In Figure 2 a we show
__label__energy	EEA Conference Exhibition 2019, 25 27 June in Auckland A Reliability-Oriented Cost Optimisation Method for Capacity Planning of a Multi-Carrier Micro-Grid: A Case Study of Stewart Island, New Zealand Soheil Mohseni, Alan C. Brent, and Daniel Burmester Chair in Sustainable Energy Systems, School of Engineering and Computer Science, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand Presenter: Soheil Mohseni Abstract Nearly all types of energy systems power systems, natural gas supply systems, fuel supply systems, and so forth are going through a major transition from centralised, top-down structures to distributed, clean energy approaches in order to address the concerns regarding climate change, air quality, depletion of natural resources, and energy security, whilst also enabling the supply of energy to communities in line with the goals of sustainable development. Accordingly, the establishment of the concept of sustainable, decentralised, multi-carrier energy systems, together with the declining costs of renewable energy technologies, has proposed changes in the energy industry towards the development of integrated energy systems. Notwithstanding the potential benefits, the optimal capacity planning of these systems with multiple energy carriers electricity, heat, hydrogen, biogas is exceedingly complex due to the concurrent goals and interrelated constraints that must be satisfied, as well as the heavily context-dependent nature of such schemes. This paper puts forward an innovative optimal capacity planning method for a cutting-edge, stand-alone multiple energy carrier micro-grid (MECM) serving the electricity, hot water, and transportation fuel demands of remote communities. The proposed MECM system is equipped with wind turbines, a hydrogen sub- system (including an electrolyser, a hydrogen reservoir, and a fuel cell), a hybrid super- capacitor battery energy storage system, a hot water storage tank, a heat exchanger, an inline electric heater, a hydrogen refuelling station, and some power converters. The objective of calculating the optimal sizes of the considered MECM through minimising its lifetime cost is subjected to the following constraints: (i) the fulfilment of some reliability indices for supplying the electrical, thermal, and transportation fuel load demands, (ii) the hourly balance between the generated and consumed energy on the MECM s network over its projected operational time frame, (iii) the provision of dynamic stability of the system, (iv) the equality of the initial and final states of energy reserves of the system, and (v) the compliance with the functional and technical characteristics of the employed components. A numerical case study for the optimal capacity planning of the suggested MECM configuration, to be realised on Stewart Island, New Zealand, is presented to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed optimisation method. 1 1 Introduction Under the Paris Agreement, the New Zealand government has committed to cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 30 below 2005 levels, by 2030. Based on this commitment and the Productivity Commission s report, the Ministry for the Environment (MfE) is driving innovation in clean energy technologies and provisions 1 , 2 . The introduction of renewable energy sources (RESs) and the advent of green transportation fleets are two major technological trends among the clean technologies in the energy sector that the MfE is pursuing to move New Zealand towards a sustainable future. Micro-grids (MGs) are attracting considerable interest recently, due to their potential advantages in terms of facilitating the integration of RESs and green transportation technologies into the existing and upcoming energy systems. The so-called multiple energy carrier micro-grid (MECM) network is referred to as an interconnected energy system that provides a platform for the linking of different energy vectors from varied distributed energy resources (DERs) to meet a variety of energy needs in a region electricity, heat, and transportation fuel 3 . The MECM model expands on the concept of smart grids with the aspiration of harnessing the interplay between different energy vectors to improve the resiliency, reliability, efficiency, and affordability of the renewable energy supply 4 . 2 Motivation The optimal equipment capacity planning of a MECM is pivotal for retaining the financial sustainability of the system, whilst ensuring reliable energy supply. This problem is a complex combinational optimisation problem due to its extremely large design space, the presence of several non-linear constraints involved in its formulation, and the lack of grid support against the fluctuations of the output powers from RESs. A novel method, based on artificial intelligence (AI) techniques, is thus needed to calculate the optimal capacity of the stand-alone MECMs equipment 5 . Such a method will promote renewable energy systems successfully and effectively in remote areas by reducing the risk when investing in grid-independent renewable energy projects; thereby addressing New Zealand s climate change and sustainable development policies. 3 Mathematical Modelling of the System under Study This section mathematically models the components integrated into the conceptualised stand- alone MECM system, whose schematic diagram and power flows are shown in Fig. 1, whilst providing insight into the operation of the network. The output power of the wind turbine (WT) power plant at different wind speeds is modelled by the following equation 6 : 𝑃ௐ (𝑡) ቐ0 ; 𝑉 𝑉 ,𝑉 𝑉 ௨௧ 𝑃 ௧ ((𝑉(𝑡) 𝑉 ) (𝑉 ௧ 𝑉 ))ଷ ; 𝑉 𝑉 𝑉 ௧ (1) 𝑃 ௧ ; 𝑉 ௧ 𝑉 𝑉 ௨௧ 2 where 𝑉 , 𝑉 ௨௧, and 𝑉 ௧ are the cut-in, cut-out, and nominal wind speeds, respectively; 𝑉(𝑡) is the wind speed at time step 𝑡; and 𝑃 ௧ is the nominal power of the WTs. In this analysis, 𝑉 ௧ and 𝑃 ௧ are set to 15 m s and 100 kW, respectively. Fig. 1. Schematic diagram and power flow of the conceptualised MECM system. The energy content of the hybrid super-capacitor (SC) battery bank at each time step of the operation of the MG can be expressed by the following equation: 𝐸 (𝑡) 𝐸 (𝑡 1) ቆ𝑃 (𝑡) 𝑃 (𝑡) ቇ 𝑡, (2) where is the round-trip efficiency of the hybrid system (i.e. 92.5 ), while 𝑃 and 𝑃 denote the charging and discharging powers of the system, respectively.1 The electrical output power of the polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cell (FC), which is driven electrically, and
__label__energy	Effects of Low Pressure Condition on Partial Discharges in WBG Power Electronics Modules Moein Borghei and Mona Ghassemi ECE Department, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Blacksburg, VA, USA Abstract The aviation industry aims to reduce CO 2 emission by reducing energy consumption and benefitting from more electrical systems than those based on fossil fuels. The more electric aircraft (MEA) can take advantage of the drives based on wide bandgap (WBG)-based power modules that are lighter and can bear higher voltages and currents. However, the fast-rise and repetitive voltage pulses generated by WBG-based systems can endanger the insulating property of dielectric materials due to the partial discharges. PDs cause the local breakdown of insulation materials in regions with high electric field magnitude. In the case of power electronic modules, silicone gel, which is a predominant type of encapsulation material, is susceptible to these PDs. In this study, it is aimed to investigate the impact of rise time on various PD characteristics including PD true charge magnitude, inception and extinction fields, duration, and so forth. Besides, those systems that are anticipated to operate under harsh environmental conditions such as naval or aviation industries may expect additional threat. Therefore, this paper puts forth the combination of low-pressure conditions and fast-rise, high-frequency square wave pulses. The results demonstrate that more intense and more intense ones are going to be imposed at lower pressures. COMSOL Multiphysics interfaced with MATLAB is used to simulate the PD detection process based on the experimental data found in the literature. Keywords Finite element analysis model, partial discharge, high slew rate, frequency voltages, low-pressure condition, silicone gel. I. INTRODUCTION While the aviation industry is expected to meet an increasing demand 1 , the number of passengers is going to be doubled by 2040 2 . This industry must also respond to environmental and economic concerns. This can justify the trend among the big manufacturers in this industry to move forward to more electric aircraft 3 . Although WBG-based systems are the major focus of researchers to achieve all-electric powertrains with higher efficiency and power density, the concern on the reliability of the insulation systems when being exposed to extremely high electric tensions has not been well-responded. In literature, the detrimental impacts of high-frequency, fast-rise voltage pulses generated by WBG-based systems have been reported 4-6 . Besides, the harsh environmental conditions during a flight even make the situation worse for the insulation system. For instance, an aircraft can undergo a pressure as low as 4 psi when flying at cruising altitude where the impact of pressure on PD occurrence has not been sufficiently studied so far. While the impact of different pressure levels (20kPa 100kPa) on the repetitive partial discharge inception voltage (RPDIV) of a solid dielectric (a twisted wire pair) is investigated in 7 , authors in 8 , studied the impact of pressure on various characteristics of PD phenomenon by FEA modeling. This study aims to assess the combined effect of low- pressure levels with ultra-short rise times with the aid FEA model. Therefore, the developed PD model is used to monitor the impact of rise time and low-pressure level on the PD intensity and duration, simultaneously. II. PD MECHANISM A. PD Inception The electric field threshold for a local breakdown (PD) is different from that of the global breakdown. However, the PD inception field is directly related to the critical electric field magnitude for global breakdown 9 . It is also a function of the properties of the gas inside the bubble as well as the bubble size. The following equation yields the PD inception electric field which is derived from the streamer inception criterion 9 : 𝐸 (𝐸 𝑝) 𝑝 ൬1 𝐵 (𝑝𝑙) .ହ൰ (1) In the above expression, (𝐸 𝑝) , 𝐵, and 𝑛 are gas parameters. In the air, their values are 24.2 𝑉 𝑃𝑎 ଵ𝑚 ଵ, 8.6 𝑃𝑎 .ହ𝑚 .ହ, and 0.5, respectively. The pressure of air is denoted as 𝑝, while 𝑙 represents the cavity diameter. Aside from the above condition, there is another condition that must be met to have an ionization taking place. It is the existence of initial free electron(s); this condition stands for the statistical time lag before the occurrence of a PD and is stochastic in nature. There are various mechanisms for the provision initial electron that are explained in 10 ; the major source for initial electrons are known to be the detrapping of electrons produced during previous PD activities and accumulated on the cavity surface. In this paper, to truly examine the impact of rise time and pressure, the stochastic intervention of electron generation processes is neglected. B. PD Extinction When a PD activity ignites, the collisions among electrons and atoms keep happening until a moment where the electron does not have enough energy to further expand the streamer. Same as the PD inception criterion, the PD extinction criterion is also a field-dependent condition. The electric field at which streamer cannot further grow and PD quenches is called the Extinction Electric Field (𝐸 ௫௧). According to Gutfleisch and Niemeyer 11, 12 , 𝐸 ௫௧ can be obtained as: 𝐸 ௫௧ 𝛾 𝑝 (𝐸 𝑝) (2) In the above expression, 𝛾 is a dimensionless factor varying with the change of voltage polarity. 𝛾 can be estimated experimentally. This work determines 𝛾 such that at normal temperature and pressure (NTP) conditions ( 𝑝 ,𝑇 ), 𝐸 ௫௧ equals the value proposed in the literature. C. PD Transient State During the PD activity, the reason behind the decrease in the electric field inside the air-bubble is the higher conductivity of the cavity compared to its normal condition. Starting from the inception time of a PD, the conductivity of cavity increases from an initial value (approximately zero) to a higher value (𝜎 ௩, ௫). Between the time at which a PD starts ( 𝑡 ), and the time at which PD quenches ( 𝑡 ௫௧), the electric charges (electrons and positive ions) are formed and accumulate over the cavity
__label__energy	1 Optimal Combination of Frequency Control and Peak Shaving with Battery Storage Systems Jonas Engels, Student Member, IEEE, Bert Claessens and Geert Deconinck, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Combining revenue streams by providing multiple services with battery storage systems increases proﬁtability and enhances the investment case. In this work, we present a novel optimisation and control framework that enables a storage system to optimally combine the provision of primary frequency control services with peak shaving of a consumption proﬁle. We adopt a dynamic programming framework to connect the daily bidding in frequency control markets with the longer term peak shaving objective: reducing the maximum consumption peak over an entire billing period. The framework also allows to aggregate frequency control capacity of multiple batteries in- stalled at different sites, creating synergies when the consumption proﬁle peaks occur on different times. Using a case study of two batteries at two industrial sites, we show that the presented approach increases net proﬁt of the batteries signiﬁcantly compared to using the batteries for only peak shaving or frequency control. Index Terms Ancillary services, Battery storage, Dynamic programming, Energy storage, Primary frequency control, Peak shaving, Robust optimisation, Stochastic optimisation I. I NTRODUCTION BATTERY energy storage systems (BESSs) installed behind-the-meter at the consumer s premises can be used for a variety of different services 1 . Often, the purpose of such a BESS is to decrease the energy costs of the consumer by optimising the charging schedule of the BESS towards their energy tariff. In case the consumer faces peak demand charges, usually a part of the grid tariffs, performing peak shaving with the BESS, i.e. reducing the consumer s power consumption peak, is an effective way to decrease energy costs 2 . A BESS installed behind-the-meter can also be used to pro- vide ancillary services, such as frequency control, to the trans- mission system operator (TSO). Especially primary frequency control (of frequency containment reserves) and frequency regulation services are seen to be a good match for a BESS, as the service provides a relatively high remuneration 3 , Jonas Engels is with Centrica Business Solutions Belgium NV , 2600 Antwerp, Belgium and with the Department of Electrical Engineering, KU Leuven EnergyVille, Leuven, Belgium (jonas.engels restore.energy) Bert Claessens is with Centrica Business Solutions Belgium NV , 2600 Antwerp, Belgium (bert.claessens restore.energy) Geert Deconinck is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, KU Leuven EnergyVille, Leuven, Belgium (geert.deconinck kuleuven.be) This work is partially supported by Flanders Innovation Entrepreneurship (VLAIO) (grant no. BM 160214) c 2019 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works. Published in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid on 31 December 2019. DOI: 10.1109 TSG.2019.2963098requires only a short duration of activation and a fast response, all of which a BESS can provide without problems 4 . By using the BESS for both energy tariff optimisation and frequency control service, one can combine both revenue streams, increase proﬁtability and build a stronger business case for the investment in the BESS. However, having a BESS providing both services concurrently is not straightforward from a control and optimisation perspective. One faces a trade-off, as using the BESS more for frequency control will decrease its peak shaving potential, which can be optimised. A. Frequency Control with a BESS The focus of this paper will be on primary frequency control services or frequency containment reserves (FCR), as deﬁned by ENTSO-E 5 , since mainly the FCR markets have been opening up for third parties in Europe. Nevertheless, the presented methodology could also be applied to other types of frequency control or frequency regulation. FCR is used by TSOs to stabilise the grid frequency continuously and thereby balance the demand and production in the grid. When participating in FCR, one sells a certain amount of symmetric FCR capacity rto the TSO which has to be available during the entire contracted period. In FCR, one has to adjust its power PFCRproportionally to deviations of the grid frequency f(t)from the nominal grid frequency fnom (50 Hz in Europe), so that the sold FCR capacity ris reached when the frequency deviation is at a predeﬁned maximum fmax ( 200 mHz in the Continental Europe synchronous region):PFCR(t) r f(t) r(f(t) fnom) fmax. In line with the recent changes in the German FCR market Regelleistung 6 , 7 , we assume a daily bidding process with daily auctions. When delivering FCR with a BESS for a while, the battery can become full or empty at which point it is unable to provide the symmetric FCR service any further. Therefore, a state of charge (SoC) control strategy, or recharge controller, which manages the SoC to ensure the BESS can deliver the FCR capacity for the entire contract period, is necessary 8 . B. Peak Shaving Grid tariffs for commercial and industrial consumers usually consist of an energy charge (in e kWh) and a demand charge cpeak (ine kW), where the latter is a charge proportional to the highest metered consumption peak during the billing period 9 . Such demand charges are typically used to recover the capacity-based costs of the network infrastructure, and are foreseen to become increasingly important with a growingarXiv:1906.06907v2 math.OC 13 Jan 2020 2 share of distributed generation 10 . With this tariff structure, a BESS can reduce network costs by discharging at the moments when the site is consuming its maximum power and charging when the site is consuming less, thereby reducing the site s metered consumption peak. In practice, the highest metered consumption corresponds to the highest n-minute averaged power of the site, as usually energy meters with an n-minute resolution are used for settle- ment. In this work, we consider demand charges proportional to the maximum quarter-hourly average power over one month, corresponding
__label__energy	Optimal price signal generation for demand-side energy management Seyed Shahabaldin Tohidi,a, , Henrik Madsena, Davide Calìaand Tobias K. S. Ritschela aDepartment of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical University of Denmark, Kgs. Lyngby, DK-2800, Denmark ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Price-demand relationship Flexibility Function Demand-side management Optimal price signals Model predictive control Price-responsive systems Electricity markets Smart Energy OSABSTRACT Renewable Energy Sources play a key role in smart energy systems. To achieve 100 renewable energy, utilizing the flexibility potential on the demand side becomes the cost-efficient option to balance the grid. However, it is not trivial to exploit these available capacities and flexibility options profitably. The amount of available flexibility is a complex and time-varying function of the price signal and weather forecasts. In this work, we use a Flexibility Function to represent the relationship between the price signal and the demand and investigate optimization problems for the price signal computation.Consequently,thisstudyconsidersthehigherandlowerlevelsinthehierarchyfromthe markets to appliances, households, and districts. This paper investigates optimal price generation via theFlexibilityFunctionandstudiesitsemploymentincontrollerdesignfordemand-sidemanagement, its capability to provide ancillary services for balancing throughout the Smart Energy Operating System,anditseffectonthephysicallevelperformance.Sequentialandsimultaneousapproachesfor computingthepricesignal,alongwithvariouscostfunctionsareanalyzedandcompared.Simulation results demonstrate the generated price penalty signal and its employment in a model predictive controller. 1. Introduction Adoption of Renewable Energy Sources (RESs) is a prominent step toward carbon neutralization, and conse- quently,isasolutiontomitigateglobalwarming.Connecting these new sources to the grid can bring new challenges due to their intermittence, fluctuating power generation, and de- pendency on environmental conditions 1, 2 . For instance, the output of wind turbines and photovoltaic (PV) panels is a complex function of many variables, like meteorolog- ical variables and dirtiness of blades or panels, and varies seasonally,daily,oratevenhigherfrequencies.Difficultyin predictingthesesourcesofpowergenerationcomplicatesthe energy management 3, 4, 5 . Different from the traditional energy management sys- tems, which are dependent on increasing the electricity supply to overcome the demand peaks, modern energy sys- temsrelyondemand-sidemanagement(DSM).Tothisend, demand loads are accommodated to the supply capacity throughout each hour of the day. This requires a permanent data transfer between the supply and demand sides 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 as well as a hierarchy of methods and models for aggregation,forecasting,controlandoptimization 12 .The entire hierarchical framework, which is entitled the Smart Energy OS (Operating System) ( 13, 14 ), has been used in several projects to activate demand-side flexibility; see for instance 15, 16, 17 . VariouslevelsandelementsofSmartEnergyOSarede- pictedinFigure1.Therequireddataandinformationtransfer betweentheelementsofthisframeworkleadstoahighlevel of complexity and indicates the need for a digitalization of theentireenergydomainasofferedbytheSmartEnergyOS. For the modern weather-driven energy system, methods for sshto dtu.dk (S.S. Tohidi, );hmad dtu.dk (H. Madsen); dcal dtu.dk (D. Calì); tobk dtu.dk (T.K.S. Ritschel) ORCID(s):0000-0002-4566-667X (S.S. Tohidi, );0000-0003-0690-3713 (H. Madsen); 0000-0002-5843-240X (T.K.S. Ritschel)connecting high-level grids and balancing challenges with the low-level flexible demand are needed 18 . This can be offered efficiently by enhancing the connection between the elements using a reliable model for the price-demand relationship 19, 20, 21 . A Flexibility Function (FF) is introduced as a key ele- ment to keep the different parts of Smart Energy OS con- nected. The FF is a stochastic model that represents the price-demand dynamics in energy systems. On one hand, it provides information on the load prediction and flexibil- ity potential for aggregators, grid operators, and balance- responsible parties, and on the other hand, it is capable of generating price signals for the electricity market and advancedcontrollersinenergymanagementsystems 22,23, 24, 25 . In this paper we will focus on power systems, but the Smart Energy OS is able efficiently to handle integrated energysystemsandsectorcoupling.Itisratherobviousthat sector coupling like power to heat and PtX, enhances the flexibility of the energy system and hence the possibilities for large-scale integration of fluctuating renewables. It is noted that when employing a nonlinear price- demand dynamical system, like the Flexibility Function, in various levels of the Smart Energy OS a methodology to guarantee stability is required. To take care of dynamic updates of FF, an Adaptive FF (AFF) is proposed in 26 . TheAFFtakesthetime-variationofprice-demanddynamics intoconsiderationandupdatesthepricesignalsuchthatthe errorbetweentheactualandpredicteddemandisminimized while stability is guaranteed. In this paper, we investigate optimal price generation via the FF and study its employment in controller design for demand-side management. The generated price penalty signal can then be utilized for ancillary services throughout the Smart Energy OS. In particular, we focus on the Smart Energy OS and its elements and their connections and in- troduce the capabilities of FF to enhance it. For instance, Page 1 of 13arXiv:2407.21759v1 eess.SY 31 Jul 2024 Optimal price signal generation Figure 1: The Smart Energy OS. we discuss demand predictability as a function of price, FF for grid balancing, and FF for physical level performance improvement. Sequential and simultaneous approaches for computingthepricesignalandprovidingancillaryservices, along with various cost functions are analyzed and com- pared.Thegeneratedoptimalpriceisthenutilizedinamodel predictive controller to improve cost efficiency by shifting the electricity load to some low electricity price periods of the day. This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 gives an overview of a Smart Energy OS and its components. Sec- tion3describestheconnectionbetweenvariouselementsof theenergysystem.InSection4,demandpredictionusingFF is introduced. In Section 5, optimal price generation using FF is investigated. Sections 6 and 7 discuss the benefits of using FF for the higher and lower levels of energy systems, respectively. Section 8 demonstrates the simulation results of optimal price generation. In Section 9, we discuss how pricesignalgenerationbasedonFFscanbeusedtoindirectly control other types of energy demand, and we use district heating as an example. Finally, a summary is given in Section 10. 2. Smart energy operating system Smartenergysystemsandtheirelementsforforecasting, control, and optimization constitute the so-called Smart Energy OS (SE-OS). The SE-OS describes the connection anddatatransferbetweeneachsegmentofthepowersystem, decision-making mechanisms, stability algorithms, etc.VariouselementsandlevelsofSE-OSaregiveninFigure 1. This figure divides the elements of the Smart Energy OS intofourlevels.Thetoplevelconsistsofelectricitymarkets, TransmissionSystemOperators(TSOs),DistributedSystem Operators (DSOs), and balance responsible parties (BRPs). Generally, energy management at this level is done for a country, region, or city. Their macroscopic point of view takes care of stability, performance, and electricity prices. Aggregators and related forecasting services are in the next level of OS. They are responsible for the energy man- agement in a city, district, micro-grid, or neighborhood and provide vital information required for energy management andcontrolatthismediumlevel.Neighborhoodsandbuild- ings, renewable energy resources like large-scale PVs, and wind turbines can also be
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 Ground state of (Pb 0.94Sr0.06)(Zr 0.530Ti0.470)O3 in the morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) region: Evidence fo r monoclinic Cc space group Ravindra Singh Solanki,1 Akhilesh Kumar Singh,1 S. K. Mishra,2 Shane J. Kennedy,3 Takashi Suzuki,4 Yoshihiro Kuroiwa,5 Chikako Moriyoshi,5 and Dhananjai Pandey1 1School of Materials Science and Technol ogy, Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi-221005, India 2Research and Technology Development Centre, Sharda University, Greater Noida- 201306, India 3Australian Nuclear Science and Technol ogy Organization (ANS TO), Australia 4Department of Quantum Matter, ADS M, Hiroshima University, Japan 5Department of Physical Science, Graduate School of Science, Hiroshima University, Japan Abstract The antiferrodistortive (AFD) phase transi tion for a pseudotetragonal composition of Pb(Zr 0.530Ti0.470)O3 (PZT) doped with 6 Sr has been investigated using sound velocity (4 to 320K), high resolution synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction (100 to 800K) and high resolution as well as high flux neutron powder diffraction measurements (4K) to settle the existing controversies about the true ground state of PZ T in the morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) region. The multiplet char acter of the neutron diffraction profiles of (3 2 1 2 1 2) pc (pseudocubic or pc indices) and (3 2 3 2 1 2) pc superlattice peaks, appearing below the AFD transition temperat ure, rules out the rhombohedral R3c space group. The true ground state is confirmed to be monoclinic in the Cc space group in agreement with the predictions of the first pr inciples calculations a nd earlier findings for pure PZT in the MPB region. 6 Sr2 substitution and the use of high wavelength (λ 2.44Å) neutrons have played key role in settling the existing controversies about the true ground state of PZ T in the MPB region. 2 Introduction: There is currently enormous interest in th e study of composition induced morphotropic phase transition in a large variety of mixed perovskite solid solutions 1-6 . The morphotropic phase transition in ferroelec tric systems is of immense technological significance, and forms the backbone of present day piezoelectric ceramic industry 7 , as it is accompanied with an anomalous increase in the physical propert ies, like dielectric permittivity and piezoelectric coefficients, around the transition composition. However, there is no universal explanation for this e nhancement of physical properties in different mixed solid solutions, although several models based on factors like phase coexistence 8 , elastic instability 9-11 , polarizat ion rotation 6, 12 and 13 and polarization extension 14, 15 have been proposed. The relevance of morphotropic phase transition for high piezoelectric response was first discovered in the fe rroelectric perovskite solid solution Pb(Zr xTi1-x)O3 (PZT) system 16-18 nearly six decades back. The phase diagram of PZT was shown to contain a morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) across which the structure changes from tetragonal symmetry for Ti-rich compositions to rhombohedral in the Ti-poor region 7 ; the true symmetry of the rhombohedral phase is, however, now known to be monoclinic 19, 20 . While the MPB com position of PZT has been extensively exploited in a wide variety of commercial sensor and actua tor devices, the physics behind the high piezoelectric response at the MPB is still not clear. The first step towards evolving a proper understanding of the phys ics of PZT ceramics is the knowledge of the ground state of PZT in the vicinity of the MPB. There is complete unanimity in the literature that the ground state of PZT in the MPB region is the result of a competition between 3 ferroelectric and antiferrodist ortive (AFD) instabilities a ssociated with zone centre Гସ and zone boundary Rସ optical phonons of the paraelectr ic phase. Such a competition is known in other perovskite compounds and solid solutions also. For example, in SrTiO 3 the AFD instability freezes out at T c 105K 21 and frustrates the subsequent development of ferroelectric (FE) or der 22 . On the otherhand, in BiFeO 3 solid solutions it is now well documented that both the AFD and FE instabilities freeze out together as expected for a trigger type tr ansition 23-25 . In contrast, in PZT, the FE instability freezes out first followed by the freezing out of the AFD instability 26, 27 . The AFD phase transition temperature of PZT, however , decreases on approaching the MPB 28 suggesting its weakening and eventual disapp earance towards the Ti-rich side of the MPB. While recent years have witnessed several interesting developments, both experimental and theoretical, related to the id entification of the true ground state of PZT resulting from the freezing out of both ferroel ectric and AFD instabilities near the MPB, there is still no unanimity about the correct space group of the gr ound state 29-35 . The first structural evidence for a new low temp erature phase of PZT at the MPB composition (x 0.520) was reported by Noheda et al 29, 30 who discovered a tetragonal (P4mm space group) to monoclinic (Cm space group) ph ase transition below room temperature 30 . However, through a low temperature elect ron diffraction study of PZT, Ragini et al 26 showed that this monoclinic phase is not the ground state of PZT in the vicinity of the MPB. They found evidence for a yet a nother low temperature phase which is a superlattice phase stable belo w 210K which cannot be accounted for in terms of the Cm space group reported by Noheda et al 29 . The existence of superlattice phase was 4 further confirmed by neutron powder diffract ion studies 27 which revealed that occurrence of an AFD phase transition involv ing antiphase tilting of oxygen octahedra at Tc 210K for x 0.520. The space group of the superlattice phase was initially proposed to be Pc 27 but was soon corrected as Cc 31 . It was also pointed out subsequently that this Cc phase coexists with a minority Cm phase 33 . The existence of the low temperature superlattice phase in the Cc space group was confirmed by other workers also in their TEM 36, 37
__label__energy	DECO2 An Open -source Energy System Decarbonisation Planning Software Including Negative Emissions Technologies Purusothmn Nair S. Bhasker Nair1, Raymond R. Tan2, Dominic C. Y. Foo1, Disni Gamaralalage3, Michael Short4 1Department Chemical and Environmental Engineering Centre of Excellence for Green Technologies, University of Nottingham Malaysia, Broga Road, 43500 Semenyih, Selangor, Malaysia 2Department of Chemical Engineering, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, 0922 Manila, Philippines 3 Presidential Endowed Chair for Platinum Society , The University of Tokyo, 7 -3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo -ku, Tokyo 113 -8656, Japan 4Department of Chemical and Process Engineering, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, United Ki ngdom Abstract The deployment of CO 2 capture and storage ( CCS) and negative emissions technologies ( NETs ) are crucial to meet the net -zero target by year 2050, as emphasised by the Glasgow Climate Pact. Over the years, several energy planning models have been developed to address the temporal aspects of carbon management. However, limited work s have incorporated CCS and NETs for bottom -up energy planni ng at the individual plant scale , which is considered in this work . The novel formulation is implemented in an open -source energy system software that has been developed in this work for optimal decarbonisation planning . The DECarbonation Options Optimisat ion ( DECO2 ) software considers multiperiod energy planning with a superstructural model and was developed in Python with an integrated user interface in Microsoft Excel. The software application is demonstrated with two scenarios that differ in terms of the availabilities of mitigation technologies. Results demonstrated the potential of fuel substitution s for low - carbon alternatives in existing coal and natural gas power plants. Additionally, once NETs are mature and are available for commercial deployment, their deployment is crucial in aiding CO 2 removal in minimal investment costs scenarios . Overall, the newly developed open -source software demonstrates the importance of determining the optimal deployment of mitigation technologies in meeting climate change targets for each period. Keywords : Multiperiod energy planning, negative emissions technologies, process integration , carbon - constrained energy planning , open -source software 1. Introduction The Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations consist of 17 goals meant for the improvement of the planet, as well as the enhanc ement in the quality of people s life (United Nations, 2021a) . The goals under Sustainable Deve lopment Goals are often interlinked. For example, the reduction in global poverty should be aligned with the enhancement of the health, education and economic sectors (United Nations, 2021a) . Of the 17 goals, Goal 13 is related to cl imate actions, which demands urgent actions to mitigate Corresponding author. Emails: m.short surrey.ac.uk (Short M ), dominic.foo nottingham.edu.my (DCYF) , purusothmn.nair gmail.com (PNSBN), raymond.tan dlsu.edu.ph (RR Tan), disnigm gmail.com (Gamaralalage D) climate change impacts (United Nations, 2021a) . In November 2015, 196 countries joined forces for the adoption of an international treaty o n climate change (United Nations Climate Change, 2021a) . The Paris Agreement aimed to limit global warming to within 2 C and preferably 1.5 C above pre -industrial levels (United Nations Climate Change, 2021a) . Despite this agreement, countries have shown limited signs of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As of 2020, the average surface temperature of Earth was 1.2 C higher in comparison to the pre -industrial period (United Nations, 2021b) . As the CO 2 concentration in the atmosphere exceed ed 410 ppm in 2020 , emissions will continue to rise unless drastic mitigation actions are taken (United Nations, 2021b) . Despite the fall in CO 2 emissions during the COVID -19 pandemic, th is trend was only short -lived (United Nations, 2021b) . By December 2020, the GHG concentration s were 2 higher than the level recorded 12 months ago (United Nations, 2021b) . At the current trajectory, a shift in the economy towards carbon neutrality must occur to prevent a further rise in GHG emissions (United Nations, 2021b) . According to the IPCC (2022a) , carbon neutrality can only be realistically achieved with the use of negative emissions technologies (NETs ) in addition to other climate change mitigation measures. Any delay in mitigation actions would only compound the impacts of climate change e.g., ris ing sea levels, prolonged droughts, greater precipitation etc. The critical impacts of climate change necessitate efficient energy planning modelling tool s. On that note, this work develop s an open -source energy system software that can be used for optimal decarbonisation planning . The mathematical formulation in this work was inspired by carbon emissions pinch analysis (CEPA) that was developed by Tan and Foo (2007) to determin e the minimum deployment of renewable energy sources in meet ing the CO 2 emission s limit of a geo graphical region. Later, Tan et al. (2009) extended the graphical targeting technique to incorporate CO 2 capture and storage (CCS). However, these earlier works were limited by being unable to consider time factor s. Practically, energy planning should be conducted over a broad time horizon , which may take several years or even decades . Such energy planning models should be able to handle the temporal aspects of carbon management, involving variations in demand and CO 2 emission limits. On that note, a multiperiod energy planning model (Ooi et al., 2014) was developed with the use of the automated targeting method (ATM) (Ooi et al., 2013) . In comparison to the graphical techni que, mathematical programming approaches are often preferable in the development of energy planning models due to the ir abilit ies in handling large -scale problems . Earlier work on the superstructural model was reported by (Pękala et al., 2010) for the deployment of biofuels and CCS in the transportation and power generation sectors. Later, a fuzzy integer programming model was formulated to account for the environmental and economic constrai nts during CCS deployment (Tan et al., 2010) . Subsequently, the optimal matching of CO 2 sources to available sinks was done via a continuous -time mixed -integer non -linear
__label__energy	FOCUS : A framework for energy system optimization from prosumer to district and city scale Jingyu Gong one.osf, four.osf, Yi Nie two.osf, Jonas van Ouwerkerk one.osf, four.osf, Felix Wege three.osf, four.osf, Mauricio Celi Cortés one.osf, four.osf, Christoph von Oy three.osf, four.osf, Jonas Brucksch one.osf, four.osf, Christian Bußar one.osf, four.osf, Thomas Schreiber two.osf, Dirk Uwe Sauer one.osf, four.osf, Dirk Müller two.osf, Antonello Monti three.osf, four.osf one.osfInstitute for Power Generation and Storage Systems, E.ON Energy Research Center, RWTH Aachen two.osfInstitute for Energy Eﬃcient Buildings and Indoor Climate, E.ON Energy Research Center, RWTH Aachen three.osfInstitute for Automation of Complex Power Systems, E.ON Energy Research Center, RWTH Aachen four.osfJülich Aachen Research Alliance, JARA-Energy Abstract Decarbonizing the energy sector is one of the main challenges to combat the climate crisis. Cities play an important role to reach climate neutrality as more than seven.osf zero.osf percent.osf of global CO two.osfemissions originate from urban areas. Decarbonization of energy supply systems can be achieved through various means, including the use of renewable energy sources, improving the eﬃciency of technologies, the coupling of diﬀerent energy sectors, and the use of ﬂexibility considering individual prosumer behaviour. This leads to an increasingly decentralized energy system, which is challenging to operate in a robust and cost-eﬀective way. The evaluation of technologies and subsystems can only be done from the perspective of the system in which it is embedded and it is highly dependent on their networking and application scenarios. Therefore, the design and operation of energy systems require adequate computation and evaluation tools, which oﬀer a holistic view of all interconnected components. The currently available optimization tools have limitations, such as limited scope of technologies and sectors, high requirements on data, high computational cost, and diﬃculty in handling multi-objective optimization. To overcome these limitations a software framework called FOCUS for the ﬂexible and dynamic modeling of any urban sector-coupled energy system is developed. The framework includes a library containing models for diﬀerent technologies and oﬀers a variety of parameter sets for each technology. FO- CUS can handle multi-objective problems by returning Pareto-optimal fronts, which helps users to discover the trade-oﬀ between criteria and objectives. The developed tool can identify new ﬂexibility potentials in the energy system, actively support companies in the respective ﬁeld to optimize urban energy system planning solutions, and determine possible threads to the stable operation of such systems. Keywords Prosumer Urban energy system Sectoral coupling Python Optimization MILP FOCUS-Framework Contents one.osf Introduction one.osf two.osf A Three-Level Optimization Model two.osf two.osf. one.osf Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . two.osf two.osf. two.osf Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . three.osf three.osf Summary and Outlook five.osf How to Get five.osf Authorship Contribution Statement five.osf Acknowledgements six.osf one.osf Introduction As global greenhouse gas emissions are still growing and the environmental impact becomes visible, many countries worldwide are acceler- ating the transition of their energy systems toclean energy. For example, the European Com- mission issued many regulations in two.osf zero.osf two.osf one.osf that to- gether form the Fit for five.osf five.osf package, which com- mits to climate neutrality by two.osf zero.osf five.osf zero.osf and sets a tar- get of at least a five.osf five.osf percent.osf net reduction in emissions by two.osf zero.osf three.osf zero.osf (compared to one.osf nine.osf nine.osf zero.osf levels) one.osf . More than half of the world s population currently lives in cities. In Europe, this value is even higher, reach- ing seven.osf zero.osf percent.osf and is estimated to be over eight.osf zero.osf percent.osf in two.osf zero.osf five.osf zero.osf two.osf . Cities also account for over seven.osf zero.osf percent.osf of global CO two.osfemissions according to three.osf , primarily from use of fossil energies in the transportation and buildings sector. Therefore, the transformation towards sustainable urban energy systems plays a major role for the energy transition. Mean- while, increasing integration of renewable en- ergy sources can be observed globally one.osf . For reasons of physical stability of the grids, elec- tricity generation has to match consumption at Page one.osf of six.osfarXiv:2304.07150v1 eess.SY 14 Apr 2023 all times. This requires sources of ﬂexibility like storage technologies to match ﬂuctuations in de- mand and volatile generation. Furthermore, the rather unstable global situation makes it nec- essary to highlight energy security four.osf . In this context, the supply of conventional energy car- riers is also characterized by high uncertainty. In addition, new technologies such as direct cur- rent (DC) technology and hydrogen gas technol- ogy are likely to be promoted in the energy sys- tem. Therefore, it can be seen that the energy system will change signiﬁcantly, and it is increas- ingly diﬃcult to provide design solutions for such complex energy systems. For designing this new energy system, dynamic energy system optimization models are becom- ing more and more relevant since they make the consideration of time-dependent operation characteristics possible and ensure dynamic en- ergy equilibrium even in high volatility situa- tions. An energy system optimization model is a math- ematical model that creates an energy balance and conversion relationship for each time step to ﬁnd the optimal energy supply solution ac- cording to a set target. The optimization frame- work FOCUS uses mixed-integer linear program- ming (MILP). In contrast to other existing tools, which mainly focus on one abstraction level and have a pre-deﬁned objective - usually minimiz- ing cost five.osf six.osf seven.osf , the newly developed software framework covers several levels of the energy system in the end-user area in more detail and allows users to build their own objectives. It adopts a bottom-up approach and provides op- timization for energy systems on three levels covering the end supply area. This area mainly consists of consumers and prosumers that can not only consume but also generate usable en- ergy mostly from renewable sources eight.osf . Figure two.osf shows the considered three
__label__energy	1 The aug-cc-pVnZ-F12 Basis Set Family: Correlation Consistent Basis Sets for Explicitly Correlated Benchmark Calculations on Anions and Noncovalent Complexes Nitai Sylvetsky, Manoj K. Kesharwani, and Jan M.L. Martin Department of Organic Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Reḥovot, Israel. Email: gershom weizmann.ac.il. FAX: 972 8 934 3029 Abstract We have developed a new basis set family, denoted aug-cc-pVnZ-F12 (or aVnZ-F12 for short), for explicitly correlated calculations. The sets included in this family were constructed by supplementing the corresponding cc-pVnZ-F12 sets with additional diffuse functions on the higher angular momenta (i.e., additional d-h functions on non-hydrogen atoms, and p-g on hydrogen), optimized for the MP2-F12 energy of the relevant atomic anions. The new basis sets have been benchmarked against electron affinities of the first- and second-row atoms, the W4-17 dataset of total atomization energies, the S66 dataset of noncovalent interactions, the BEGDB water clusters subset, and the WATER23 subset of the GMTKN24 and GMTKN30 benchmark suites. The aVnZ-F12 basis sets displayed excellent performance, not just for electron affinities but also for noncovalent interaction energies of neutral and anionic species. Appropriate CABS (complementary auxiliary basis sets) were explored for 2 the S66 noncovalent interactions benchmark: between similar-sized basis sets, CABS were found to be more transferable than generally assumed. Introduction Wavefunction ab initio calculations are, inherently, a two-dimensional convergence problem: for the most part, getting the right answer for the right reason entails achieving convergence in terms of both (1-particle) basis set size and the level of (n-particle) electron correlation treatment.1 For systems well described by a single reference determinant (i.e., excited states are energetically well-separated from the ground state), the gold standard CCSD(T)2,3 (coupled cluster4 7 with all single and double substitutions8 and quasiperturbative triples2,3) method is known to produce results rather close to the n-particle limit (i.e., full configuration interaction or FCI) at a tiny fraction of the latter s cost. This leaves basis set convergence as the main bottleneck. In terms of conventional one-particle basis sets, basis set convergence is rather slow.9 11 Nevertheless, its monotonic character enables the use of extrapolation techniques when appropriately systematic basis set sequences are used.12 15 The correlation consistent basis set family (denoted cc-pVnZ), developed by Dunning et al.,16 18 has gained great popularity for displaying smooth, systematic convergence of energies and other calculated properties toward the complete basis set (CBS) limit as the cardinal number (n in cc-pVnZ) is increased. This feature permits the systematic improvement of ab initio calculations toward the exact solution of the time-independent, nonrelativistic, electronic Schrödinger equation by systematically improving not only the electron correlation method (for example, employing CCSD(T) instead of CCSD), but also the basis set (i.e., cc-pVTZ instead of cc-pVDZ). Thus, it also paved the way for a large number of extrapolation formulas that can be used to estimate the CBS limit (see, e.g., Refs.15,19). 3 In order to obtain accurate electron affinities (EAs), a balanced description of the neutral and (spatially much more extended) anionic wavefunctions requires the inclusion of diffuse (small-exponent) basis functions for describing the long-range region. Kendall et al.20 augmented their cc-pVnZ basis sets with one additional diffuse function for each angular momentum symmetry present within that basis. Specifically, additional s and p functions were optimized for the appropriate atomic anions to minimize the SCF energy, while functions with higher angular momenta (d,f,g, etc., which do not contribute to the SCF energy in a spherical system) were optimized for the CISD correlation energy of the anions. As expected, the resulting augmented basis sets, denoted aug-cc-pVnZ (or, sometimes, AVnZ for short), were found to yield substantially better EAs than their unaugmented counterparts.20 It had also been realized (e.g.,21) that diffuse functions accelerate basis set convergence for non-covalent interactions (NCIs).22,23,24 Aside from basis set extrapolation techniques, basis set convergence can be greatly accelerated by means of explicitly correlated (F12) methods,25 29 in which some geminal terms that explicitly depend on the interelectronic distance are added to the 1-particle basis set.30 37 Unfortunately, it has been shown that combining F12 methods with basis sets not specifically optimized for them may lead to erratic, non-monotonic convergence to the basis set limit.38 41 In order to overcome this difficulty, the cc-pVnZ-F12 basis set family (or VnZ-F12 for short, consisting of F12 counterparts of the conventional cc-pVnZ sets) was developed by Peterson et al.;42 44 these basis sets, which were optimized at the MP2-F12 level in the presence of the appropriate geminal terms, appear to exhibit smoother convergence behavior in F12 calculations than orbital-optimized cc-pVnZ basis.45 After displaying superior performance for the W4-15 atomization energies benchmark,41 CCSD-F12 VnZ-F12 calculations were recently adopted in the Wn composite protocols developed 4 by our group, as they substantially reduce computational cost (manifested in CPU time and especially memory and scratch disk requirements) without sacrificing accuracy.41 The VnZ-F12 basis sets contain diffuse functions for s and p orbitals, but not for the higher angular momenta. As a result, in a recent benchmark study46 carried out by our group on water clusters (H2O)n 2 10,20, (H3O )(H2O)n 1 6, and (OH )(H2O)n 1-6, atypically poor basis set convergence was found for the anionic species.46 In light of the above discussion regarding the aug-cc-pVnZ basis sets, one might suspect that this issue is much more general than the solvated hydroxides case, and expect it to affect calculations of EAs and NCIs as well as calculations involving any anions whatsoever. If that is so, augmenting the VnZ-F12 basis sets with additional diffuse functions, in a strategy similar to the one embraced in the aug-cc-pVnZ development procedure, will help recover the smooth convergence behavior of the correlation consistent basis set family for such systems. In the present paper, we will develop and present such augmented basis sets for explicitly correlated calculations, to be denoted aug-cc-pVnZ-F12 (or aVnZ-F12, for short). By in-depth benchmarking, we will also assess their performance with respect to their non-augmented counterparts for calculating EAs, total atomization energies, neutral NCIs, and anionic NCIs. Computational Details Most conventional and explicitly correlated ab initio
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	1 Atomic Scheduling of Appliance Energy Consumption in Residential Smart Grid Kyeong Soo Kim, Member, IEEE , Sanghyuk Lee, Tiew On Ting, Member, IEEE , and Xin-She Yang Abstract The current formulation of the optimal scheduling of appliance energy consumption uses as optimization variables the vectors of appliances scheduled energy consumption over equally-divided time slots of a day, which does not take into account the atomicity of appliances operations (i.e., the un- splittable nature of appliances operations and resulting energy consumption). In this paper, we provide a new formulation of atomic scheduling of energy consumption based on the optimal routing framework; the ﬂow conﬁgurations of users over multiple paths between the common source and destination nodes of a ring network are used as optimization variables, which indicate the starting times of scheduled energy consumption, and optimal scheduling problems are now formulated in terms of the user ﬂow conﬁgurations. Because the atomic optimal scheduling results in aBoolean-convex problem for a convex objective function, we propose a successive convex relaxation technique for efﬁcient calculation of an approximate solution, where we iteratively drop fractional-valued elements and apply convex relaxation to the resulting problem until we ﬁnd a feasible suboptimal solution. Numerical results for the cost and peak-to-average ratio minimization problems demonstrate that the successive convex relaxation technique can provide solutions close to, often identical to, global optimal solutions. Index Terms Atomic scheduling, convex relaxation, demand- side management, energy consumption scheduling, optimal rout- ing, smart grid. I. I NTRODUCTION WE study the problem of scheduling electrical appliance energy consumption in residential smart grid. Our goal in revisiting this well-known problem of energy consumption scheduling (e.g., 1 9 ) is to establish a new formulation of optimal scheduling problems where we take into account theatomicity of operations by household appliances, and to provide efﬁcient solution techniques for the formulated optimal scheduling problems. By atomicity, we mean the unsplittable nature of appliances operations and resulting energy consumption. Note that the scheduling of electrical appliance energy consumption is a key to the autonomous demand-side manage- ment (DSM) for residential smart grid in optimizing energy production and consumption; the scheduling is based on smart meters installed at users premises and the two-way digital communications between a utility company and users through the smart meters, and the typical goals of DSM includes K. S. Kim, S. Lee, and T. O. Ting are with the Depart- ment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Xi an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou 215123, Jiangsu Province, P. R. China (e-mail: fKyeongsoo.Kim,Sanghyuk.Lee,Toting g xjtlu.edu.cn). Xin-She Yang is with the School of Science and Technology, Middlesex University, London NW4 4BT, United Kingdom (e-mail: x.yang mdx.ac.uk).consumption reducing and shifting, which lead into lower peak-to average ratio (PAR) and energy cost 10 . Since the energy consumption scheduling was formulated as an optimization problem using energy consumption schedul- ing vectors as optimization variables representing appliances scheduled hourly energy consumption over a day 1 , there have been published a number of papers on the subjects of appliance energy consumption scheduling and related billing pricing mechanisms based on this formulation. For instance, the issue of optimality and fairness in autonomous DSM is studied in relation with billing mechanisms in 4 , while the same issue is studied but in the context of user privacy in 6 . The cost and PAR minimization problems, which are separately formulated in 1 , are integrated into a PAR-constrained cost minimization problem in 7 . This integration is also further extended to take into account con- sumers preference on operation delay and power gap using multiple objective functions. In 9 , instead of typical concave n-person games, Rubinstein-Stahl bargaining game model is used to capture the interaction between the supplier and the consumers through a retail price vector in lowering PAR to a certain desired value. In most existing works on the energy consumption schedul- ing for autonomous DSM in smart grid, however, no serious attention has been given to the microstructure of scheduled energy consumption over time slots; their major focus is on the optimal value of an objective function that is only based on the aggregate load from the scheduled energy consumption. Few exceptions in this regard include the works on the integration of consumers preference 7 and the use of load consumption curves in the objective function 2 . Below are some scenarios illustrating the importance of the atomicity of appliance operations. When a user washes clothes, the washing machine should be continuously on for a certain period depending on the amount of laundry, e.g., for two hours, during which the operation of the clothes washer cannot be interrupted and the supplied power cannot be reduced arbitrarily. As the washing task can be activated anytime within a speciﬁed period, e.g., from 9 AM to 3 PM when the user is out to work, the major goal of autonomous DSM is to determine the optimal two-hour time slot to complete the task when the energy price is lowest during the speciﬁed period. For heavier-duty tasks like charging the battery of a plug- in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV), again the continuity of the operation is important, e.g., four hours of uninterrupt- ible charging to maintain the lifetime of PHEV s battery.arXiv:1506.00198v3 cs.NI 25 Sep 2019 2 Appliances such as a rice cooker can signiﬁcantly con- tribute to the overall cost saving if handled properly. Some rice cookers function may take more than one hour for completion, e.g., the slow cooking function for delicate soup, whereby the cooking process can be scheduled within any time-shot during the day. Considering that most of the operations subject to DSM are either atomic as such (e.g., laundry cleaning by a clothes washer) or consist of atomic suboperations (e.g., house heating by a heater operating in the morning and in the evening) 8 , therefore, we provide a new formulation of the optimization problem for atomic scheduling of appliance energy consump- tion and efﬁcient solution techniques for resulting problems in this paper. Atomic scheduling has been mostly discussed in
__label__energy	Transactive Framework for Dynamic Energy Storage Allocation for Critical Load Management Arnab Dey1, Vivek Khatana1, Ankur Mani2and Murti V . Salapaka1 Abstract Increased penetration of Distributed Energy Resources (DER) and Renewable Energy Systems (RES) transforming the conventional distribution grid into a transactive framework supervised by a distribution system operator (DSO). Although the emerging transactive energy management techniques improve the grid reliability, the inherent uncertainty of RES poses a challenge in meeting the power demand of the critical infrastructure in the microgrid unless sufficient battery energy storage is maintained. However, maintaining expensive battery storage increases the operating cost of the DSO. In this article, we propose a cost-effective dynamic resource allocation strategy to optimize the battery reserve requirement while ensuring the critical demand is met with a provable guarantee. Our proposed scheme enables the DSO to optimize the RES and battery reserve allocation to eliminate the risk of over or underproduction. We present numerical simulations under three different scenarios of multiple microgrids with uncertain renewable generation. The simulation results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed transactive stochastic control algorithm. Index terms: Microgrids, optimization, partial differential equations, photovoltaic, renewable energy sources, transactive grid, uncertainty minimization, wind energy. I. INTRODUCTION IN recent times, the proliferation of distributed energy resources (DER), propelled by a mounting interest towards the generation and utilization of clean renewable energies, has fostered a paradigm change in the operation and control of power distribution networks. Renewable energy sources (RES), like solar photo-voltaic systems and wind energy sys- tems, reduce the adverse environmental effects of traditional energy sources; integration of DERs also offer improved grid assistance, efficiency and reliability. As renewables are expected to contribute 60 of total generation by 2050 1 , a rapid growth of prosumers , equipped with distributed RES, is envisaged to transform the conventional energy systems (CES) to transactive energy systems (TES). According to U.S. Department of Energy GridWise Architecture Council, TES are defined as the systems of coordinated control mechanisms that allow dynamic balance of supply and demand, using value as a key operational parameter 2 . However, due to the uncertain and intermittent nature of the RES, maintaining the balance between power supply and demand in a distributed This work is supported by Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy OPEN through the project titled Rapidly Viable Sustained Grid via grant no. DE-AR0001016. 1Arnab Dey dey00011 umn.edu , Vivek Khatana khata010 umn.edu , Murti V . Salapaka murtis umn.edu are with Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, USA, and2Ankur Mani amani umn.edu is with Department of Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, USA,framework is challenging if extra measures such as mecha- nisms for ancillary services are not present 3 , 4 . Moreover, climate related catastrophic events are increasing in frequency and magnitude 5 , 6 . In this context, collaborative operation across multiple critical facilities allows for pooling renewable resources and reduces uncertainty and impact of idiosyncratic generation shocks due to catastrophic failure at a facility. For such critical infrastructures, it is important to guarantee needed power and thus managing uncertainty of renewable energy sources needs to be addressed. Therefore, collaborative operation, intertwined with uncertainty mitigation techniques, provides an attractive solution when RES are used to supply power. Energy storage allocation for demand-supply balance, con- sidering fluctuating renewable generation, is of significant interest presently to the researchers. In 7 , a dynamic energy management scheme, considering stochastic load demands and renewable generations of multiple prosumers, is proposed based on Lyapunov optimization theory. An alternating di- rection method of multipliers (ADMM) based optimization method is proposed in 8 with the focus of minimizing energy trading cost in a TES framework. Prior works have considered game theoretic approaches 9 , 10 , stochastic programming 11 and, mixed-integer linear programming 12 to maximize the profit of each agent in TES with high penetration of RES; however without explicitly modelling the RES output and considering real-time power balance. In 13 , a multi-agent optimization technique is presented to improve demand-supply balance in distribution networks with DERs. An analytical approach, based on cost-benefit analysis, is devised in 14 to improve energy sharing instead of profit maximization, within a residential microgrid, however, stochasticity of the renewable generation was not addressed. In 15 , an intelligent network of agents, connected to a DC microgrid, is considered to conduct power trading based on min-consensus algorithm. Here, each agent broadcasts power demand request and based on the request received from the neighbors, optimal power dispatch solution is obtained. Reference 16 provides a case study of a TES where the distribution system operator controls the energy trading between transactive nodes in a day-ahead market and benefits of the participants are estimated based on locational marginal price. In 17 , 18 , authors have proposed Monte Carlo simulation methodology for optimal allocation of battery energy storage under fluctuating wind and solar power. Optimization algorithms emphasizing on overall investment and operational cost reduction is the focus of 17 21 . To address the stochastic nature of the solar radiation and wind, 22 25 incorporate probabilistic approaches to model the renewable power output. However, most of the TES frameworkarXiv:2101.05890v4 eess.SY 5 Sep 2023 found in literature do not consider explicit probabilistic models for the renewable generation. Moreover, most of the existing literature either focus on cost optimization for energy trading in TES without addressing the energy storage requirement and supply guarantee required by the critical infrastructures (e.g. hospitals), or, solely consider energy storage optimization without exploring the benefit of utilization of the same in transactive architecture. Here, an approach for optimal energy storage allocation to mitigate the uncertainty of meeting load demands of critical infrastructures in a TES, due to stochastic nature of renewable generations, is required. To this end, in this article we focus on a TES framework consisting of centralized battery storage and multiple number of small-scale microgrids with critical infrastructures that require guarantee of supplying the demand requested at a future time. Each microgrid is equipped
__label__energy	IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 2020 1 Blockchain for Future Smart Grid: A Comprehensive Survey Muhammad Baqer Mollah, Member, IEEE, Jun Zhao, Member, IEEE, Dusit Niyato, Fellow, IEEE, Kwok-Yan Lam, Senior Member, IEEE, Xin Zhang, Member, IEEE, Amer M.Y .M. Ghias, Member, IEEE, Leong Hai Koh, Member, IEEE, and Lei Yang, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The concept of smart grid has been introduced as a new vision of the conventional power grid to ﬁgure out an efﬁcient way of integrating green and renewable energy technologies. In this way, Internet-connected smart grid, also called energy Internet, is also emerging as an innovative approach to ensure the energy from anywhere at any time. The ultimate goal of these developments is to build a sustainable society. However, integrating and coordinating a large number of growing connections can be a challenging issue for the traditional central- ized grid system. Consequently, the smart grid is undergoing a transformation to the decentralized topology from its centralized form. On the other hand, blockchain has some excellent features which make it a promising application for smart grid paradigm. In this paper, we aim to provide a comprehensive survey on application of blockchain in smart grid. As such, we identify the signiﬁcant security challenges of smart grid scenarios that can be addressed by blockchain. Then, we present a number of blockchain-based recent research works presented in different literatures addressing security issues in the area of smart grid. We also summarize several related practical projects, trials, and products that have been emerged recently. Finally, we discuss essential research challenges and future directions of applying blockchain to smart grid security issues. Citation information: DOI: https: doi.org 10.1109 JIOT.2020.2993601 The work of J. Zhao is supported by the Nanyang Technological University (NTU) Startup Grant M4082311.020, Alibaba-NTU Singapore Joint Research Institute (JRI) M4062640.J4I, Singapore Ministry of Education Academic Research Fund Tier 1 RG128 18, RG115 19, and Tier 2 MOE2019-T2-1- 176, and NTU-WASP Joint Project M4082443.020. The work of D. Niyato is supported by the National Research Foundation (NRF), Singapore, under Sin- gapore Energy Market Authority (EMA), Energy Resilience, NRF2017EWT- EP003-041, Singapore NRF2015-NRF-ISF001-2277, Singapore NRF National Satellite of Excellence, Design Science and Technology for Secure Critical In- frastructure NSoE DeST-SCI2019-0007, A STAR-NTU-SUTD Joint Research Grant on Artiﬁcial Intelligence for the Future of Manufacturing RGANS1906, WASP NTU M4082187 (4080), Singapore MOE Tier 2 MOE2014-T2-2-015 ARC4 15, and MOE Tier 1 2017-T1-002-007 RG122 17. The work of K. Y . Lam is supported by the National Research Foundation, Prime Ministers Ofﬁce, Singapore under its Strategic Capability Research Centres Funding Initiative. The work of L. Yang is supported in part by the U.S. National Science Foundation under Grants EEC-1801727, IIS-1838024, and CNS- 1950485. (Corresponding author: Muhammad Baqer Mollah) M. B. Mollah, J. Zhao, D. Niyato, and K. Y . Lam are with the School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Sin- gapore 639798 (Email: muhd.baqer ntu.edu.sg; junzhao ntu.edu.sg; dniy- ato ntu.edu.sg; kwokyan.lam ntu.edu.sg). X. Zhang and A. M. Y . M. Ghias are with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798 (Email: jackzhang ntu.edu.sg; amer.ghias ntu.edu.sg). L. H. Koh is with the Energy Research Institute, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798 (Email: lhkoh ntu.edu.sg). L. Yang is with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557, USA (Email: leiy unr.edu). Copyright (c) 20xx IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. However, permission to use this material for any other purposes must be obtained from the IEEE by sending a request to pubs-permissions ieee.org.Index Terms Blockchain, Smart contract, Smart grid, En- ergy Internet, Internet of Energy, Grid 2.0, Energy trading, Distributed Energy Resources, Microgrid, Security. I. I NTRODUCTION IN the past few decades, traditional centralized fossil fuel- based energy systems have been facing some major chal- lenges such as long-distance transmission, carbon emission, environment pollution, and energy crisis. In order to build a sustainable society by addressing these challenges, utiliza- tion of renewable energy from diverse sources as well as improving the efﬁciency of energy usage are the two key potential solutions. In recent years, the smart grid concept 1 6 which involves communication technology, interconnected power system, advanced control technology, and smart meter- ing has been applied to improve the utilization of renewable energy sources and relieve the energy crisis somehow. The concept of smart grid has been introduced as a new vision of conventional power grid which offers two-way energy and information exchange in order to ﬁgure out an efﬁcient way of delivering, managing, and integrating green and renewable energy technologies. Unfortunately, the smart grid makes it difﬁcult to enhance the access to distributed and scalable energy resources at a large scale as well as ensure energy security and integrate other approaches to improve the energy utilization efﬁciency and reliability. Therefore, in order to advance it and solve the current limitations, the Energy Internet (EI), also called Inter- net of Energy (IoE) or Smart Grid 2.0, has been introduced by integrating smart grid context with Internet technology 7 15 . In contrast with the smart grid, the EI is an Internet- style solution for energy related issues by accommodating with IoT, advanced information communication technologies, power system components, and other energy networks. The aim of this emerging and innovative approach is to ensure the connection of energy anywhere at any time. In summary, both concepts have been developed with aims to ensure that all the participants and components have the ability (i) to interact closely with each other, (ii) to make decisions by themselves, (iii) to exchange both energy and associated in- formation in multiple ways, (iv) to access large-scale different types of distributed energy resources seamlessly, (v) to adapt with both centralized and distributed energy sources, (vi) to balance energy supply and demand through energy sharing, and (vii) to ensure ﬂexible energy generation selling and purchasing consuming the energy. Since the connectivity isarXiv:1911.03298v2 cs.CR 13 May 2020 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 2020 2 becoming larger, a major challenging issue is to
__label__energy	Multi-Horizon Planning of Multi-Energy Systems Tim Felling , Oliver Levers , Philipp Fortenbacher Amprion GmbH (Transmission System Operator) Germany ftim.felling, oliver.levers, philipp.fortenbacher g amprion.net Abstract In order to reach EU s goal of zero emissions in 2050, the energy system will go through a signiﬁcant transition over the next decades. To substitute fossil energy carriers, renewable energy sources will be mainly integrated in the power system. Thereby, sector coupling will play a major role by making ﬂexibility from other sectors such as heat or transport accessible to the power system. Planning the cost optimal transition requires a whole-system view over multiple horizons and across all sectors. This imposes the need for multi-energy system (MES) models coupled with multi-horizon investment models. This paper presents two multi-horizon planning approaches to determine the cost optimal pathway of a MES. As a major contribution, we propose a new method to incorporate technology-dependent learning cost curves in the planning problem and show that the resulting mixed-integer linear programming problem can be solved faster with a Benders decomposition technique as compared to a closed optimization. As a further contribution, we demonstrate the usefulness of our approach by showing the MES expansion pathway for a small German test system. Index Terms energy hub, intersectoral dispatch model, inte- grated energy system, sector coupling I. I NTRODUCTION A. Motivation Planning of infrastructure is rather a matter of decades than years. Thus, even though the target years 2045 seem far away, it is of signiﬁcant importance to start planning the energy transition to a carbon emission free system today. In addition, new required technologies still need time for technical development until they are ready for the market. The key to zero emissions across all energy sectors in 2045 lays in the reduction of the ﬁnal energy consumption while increasing the share of electricity of the primary energy sources, as most of the renewable energy sources (RES), mainly photovoltaic (PV) and wind, provide electricity. As their infeed is highly ﬂuctuating, an interlinked energy system will enable to better cope with ﬂexibility and even store surplus energy over a longer period of time, e.g. by linking the power system to hydrogen, heat or gas system. In response, this helps to decarbonize these sectors. Hence, the individual sectors should no longer be considered on their own but rather together in an integrated manner. In consequence, expansions of energy infrastructures such as gas pipelines or power transmission lines need to be planned on an integrated level to outweigh their overall value across the interlinked sectors. In sum, this imposes the need for multi-energy system (MES) models that capture the interactions between several energy carriers and are able to plan the composition of the future energy system. Planning over the entire transitionTABLE I COMPARISON OF EXISTING MULTI -ENERGY SYSTEM MODELS . Model Dispatch Investment Resolution Problem Horizon Model Horizon Learning temporal spatial Class PyPSA 6 yearly myopic multiple - high high LP Enertile 13 yearly closed multiple - high high LP FINE 7 weekly myopic multiple - high high MILP Dimension 14 weekly closed single - high high LP anyMOD 10 yearly closed multiple - high high LP TIMES 8 yearly closed multiple x low low LP,MILP PRIMES 9 yearly closed multiple x low low NLP LISA yearly closed single, x high high LP, multiple MILP pathway requires special attention on the model choice 1 , 2 as the value of infrastructures can only be assessed by models that run on high temporal and spatial resolutions. In addition, a yearly dispatch horizon is required to quantify the impacts on seasonal variations. Altogether, this requires to solve large-scale optimization problems. Therefore, it is crucial to bring their computational complexity to a manageable level by ﬁnding tractable formulations. B. Related Work and Contribution Given the importance of the topic, several MES models with individual focal points have been developed in academia within the last years and found application in studies 3 , 4 . In contrast to macro-economic top-down models, bottom-up models use optimization to compute a least cost for the path- way of an energy system 5 . Table I gives an overview over recent bottom-up models. To determine a certain transition pathway on which investment decisions are undertaken, either myopic approaches 6 , 7 or closed approaches 8 , 9 are applied. Closed approaches with perfect foresight have the advantage to obtain a cost optimal pathway, since they take the entire pathway into account, but induce higher complexity to the problem. Myopic approaches have the risk to lead to suboptimal results and stranded investments 10 , 11 , 12 . The decline of the installation cost per quantity as a function of the cumulative installed quantity is referred to as learning cost curves and is a realistic behavior of equipment producers. The modeling of this ability is even more complex. The contribution of this paper is two-fold. First, we present a tractable MES model capturing seasonal MES operation and incorporating a single-horizon investment model. We call our model LISA, which stands for light integrated energy system analysis. Second, we extend the LISA model by two multi-horizon planning approaches to determine the optimal investment decisions over a given transition path. The pathway submitted to Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC), 2022, PortoarXiv:2110.11806v1 eess.SY 22 Oct 2021 consists of several horizons each starting with the supporting year, in which the investment decision takes place. In contrast to existing myopic approaches 6 , 15 , we solve the opti- mization problem (OP) with a closed approach and, thus, take future investment decisions over the course of the entire transi- tion path into account. Our planning approaches consider end- of-horizon effects and value discounting. The ﬁrst approach considers linear cost functions associated with the investment decisions and is formulated as a linear programming (LP) problem. As a major contribution, our second approach is able to incorporate technology-dependent learning cost curves closing the gap between ﬁne 6 , 13 , 7 , 14 and coarse 8 , 9 granular energy system
__label__energy	arXiv:2401.15525v2 eess.SY 24 Aug 20241 Multi-Interval Energy-Reserve Co-Optimization with SoC-Dependent Bids from Battery Storage Cong Chen ,Student Member, IEEE, Siying Li ,Student Member, IEEE, and Lang Tong ,Fellow, IEEE Abstract We consider the problem of co-optimized energy- reserve market clearing with state-of-charge (SoC) depend ent bids from battery storage participants. While SoC-depende nt bids capture storage s degradation and opportunity costs, such bids result in a non-convex optimization in the market clear ing process. More challenging is the regulation reserve capaci ty clearing, where the SoC-dependent cost is uncertain as it de pends on the unknown regulation trajectories ex-post of the marke t clearing. Addressing the nonconvexity and uncertainty in a multi-interval co-optimized real-time energy-reserve ma rket, we introduce a simple restriction on the SoC-dependent bids al ong with a robust optimization formulation, transforming the n on- convex market clearing under uncertainty into a standard co nvex piece-wise linear program and making it possible for large- scale storage integration. Under reasonable assumptions, we sho w that SoC-dependent bids yield higher proﬁt for storage particip ants than that from SoC-independent bids. Numerical simulation s demonstrate a 28 -150 proﬁt increase of the proposed SoC- dependent bids compared with the SoC-independent counterp art. Index Terms Energy-reserve co-optimization, SoC-dependent bid, multi-interval dispatch, convexiﬁcation, robust opt imization, wholesale market participation of BESS. I. I NTRODUCTION Battery energy storage systems (BESS) are exceptional resources in transmission systems with substantial renewa ble integration. Large-scale participation of BESS can shave p eak load, reduce the intermittency of renewable energy, and pro - vide fast-ramping and high-quality regulation services. H ow- ever, in a deregulated bid-based electricity market, a merc hant BESS participant faces the challenge of constructing bids and offers that accurately capture its costs. Unlike tradit ional generation resources, the costs of BESS participants inclu de battery degradation and opportunity costs, both functions of the scheduled state-of-charge (SoC) trajectory 2 , 3 . In particular, the health of BESS is closely related to the batt ery charge cycle, and the battery SoC at one time directly affect s its ability to capture future proﬁtable charging discharg ing opportunities. Therefore, there is valid interest in consi dering SoC-dependent bidding, allowing BESS participants to expr ess their willingness to charge discharge as a function of batt ery SoC 4 , 5 . To this end, this work aims to shed light on thecomputation-effectiveness trade-off when SoC-dependent bids are allowed in the energy and reserve markets: (i) For Part of the work is under review by the 2024 IEEE Power Energy Society General Meeting (PESGM) 1 . Cong Chen, Siying Li, and Lang Tong ( cc2662,sl2843,lt35 cornell.edu ) are with Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA. Cong Chen is also with Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305. This work is supported in part by the Nati onal Science Foundation under Award 2218110 and 1932501, Power Systems and Engineer ing Research Center (PSERC) Research Project M-46, and the Stanford Energy Post doctoral Fellowship.the market operator, can the existing market clearing frame - work accommodate computationally expensive SoC-dependent bids? (ii) For BESS, do SoC-dependent bids effectively reveal storage cost and bring meaningful proﬁt gain over SoC- independent bids? In this work, we consider SoC-dependent bids from BESS participants in a co-optimized energy-reserve real-time m arket, where BESS participants bid energy charging discharging s er- vices and regulation reserve capacity.1In particular, this paper considers a multi-interval look-ahead dispatch of BESS and other generation resources, where BESS are scheduled for a block of future intervals with only the immediate (binding) interval implemented. We balance the BESS bidding model effectiveness and computation efﬁciency in the market clea ring problem, which uses the multi-interval look-ahead dispatc h to determine energy charging discharging dispatch quantiti es and reserve capacities. Through analysis and empirical studie s, we evaluate BESS s proﬁtability and power system operation co sts of having SoC-dependent bids. A. Summary of contribution We address the nonconvexity and uncertainty in a multi- interval co-optimized energy-reserve market involving So C- dependent bids. Our contribution is threefold. First, we present a robust formulation of the co-optimized energy-reserve market with SoC-dependent bids. The regu- lation reserve capacity is cleared when the SoC-dependent storage cost is uncertain, as it depends on the unknown regu- lation trajectories ex-post of the market clearing. The nov elty of our formulation is a rigorous model of such uncertainties in the multi-interval look-ahead energy and regulation dispa tch, compared with the ad-hoc characterization of BESS costs in the existing electricity market. Second, we show in Theorem 1that the nonconvex energy- reserve co-optimization can be convexiﬁed if the BESS bids satisfy the so-called Equal Decremental-Cost Ratio (EDCR) condition 7 , rendering the intractable robust energy-reserve co-optimization a standard convex piecewise linear progra m commonly used in the existing market clearing program. Such convexiﬁcation is crucial for the large-scale integration of BESS. The convexiﬁcation is also signiﬁcant when pricing energy and reserve services by simplifying the problem of uplift payments 8 . Third, we establish a performance guarantee and numerical evaluation of SoC-dependent EDCR bids over standard SoC- independent bids. In particular, we show in Theorem 2that, 1For simplicity, we only consider regulation reserve and ene rgy markets, which can be extended to other types of reserve markets in 6 . 2 given any SoC-independent bids, we propose an optimization to ﬁnd EDCR bids with higher storage proﬁtability under certain assumptions. We further relax these assumptions in the simulation and empirically demonstrate that EDCR bids can increase storage proﬁts by 28 -150 over SoC-independent bids in the energy-reserve co-optimized market. B. Related work BESS, especially lithium battery, are known to have SoC- dependent costs, including the lifetime degradation cost 3 , 9 11 and opportunity cost 2 , 12 14 . When operated at different SoC levels, BESS have different degradation ra tes and different capabilities in catching future arbitrage pr oﬁt opportunities.2Literature considering these costs generally falls into two categories. Type I starts from the perspectiv e of BESS to quantify these costs and produce bidding
__label__energy	arXiv:2205.10707v2 physics.chem-ph 1 Oct 2022Benchmarking the Semi-Stochastic CC( P;Q) Approach for Singlet Triplet Gaps in Biradicals Arnab Chakraborty,1Stephen H. Yuwono,1J. Emiliano Deustua,1Jun Shen,1and Piotr Piecuch1,2,a) 1)Department of Chemistry, Michigan State University, East L ansing, Michigan 48824, USA 2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State Univer sity, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA (Dated: 4 October 2022) We recently proposed a semi-stochastic approach to converging h igh-level coupled-cluster (CC) energetics, such as those obtained in the CC calculations with singles, doubles, an d triples (CCSDT), in which the deterministic CC( P;Q) framework is merged with the stochastic conﬁguration interactio n Quantum Monte Carlo propagations J. E. Deustua, J. Shen, and P. Piecuch, Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 223003 (2017) . In this work, we investigate the ability of the semi-stochastic CC( P;Q) methodology to recover the CCSDT energies of the lowest singlet and triplet states and the corresponding single t triplet gaps of biradical systems using methylene, (HFH) , cyclobutadiene, cyclopentadienyl cation, and trimethylenemeth ane as examples. I. INTRODUCTION There has been great progress in ab initio computa- tional quantum chemistry, but an accurate description of multi-reference (MR) situations, such as molecular po- tential energy surfaces along bond breaking coordinates, electronicspectraofradicalandbiradicalspecies, andex- cited states dominated by two-electron transitions, con- tinuestorepresentamajorchallenge. While atraditional way of addressing this challenge has been to use MR approaches that rely on multi-dimensional model spaces spanned by multiple reference determinants,1 8in this work we focus on methods based on the single-reference (SR) coupled-cluster (CC) theory9 13(cf. Refs. 14 and 15 for selected reviews), in which the ground electronic state is expressed using the exponential wave function ansatz Ψ an bracketri ht eT Φ an bracketri ht, where T summationtextN n 1Tnis the clus- ter operator, Nis the total number of correlated elec- trons in the system, Tnis then-body (n-particle n-hole orn-tuply excited) component of T, and Φ an bracketri htis the ref- erence determinant that serves as a Fermi vacuum. By truncating Tat various excitation ranks, one obtains the well-knownhierarchyofSRCCapproximations,including the CC method with singles and doubles (CCSD),16 19 whereTis truncated at T2, the CC method with sin- gles, doubles, and triples(CCSDT),20 23whereTis trun- catedatT3, the CCmethod with singles, doubles, triples, and quadruples (CCSDTQ),24 27whereTis truncated at T4, and so on. As long as the number of strongly cor- related electrons is not too large, the CCSD, CCSDT, CCSDTQ, etc. hierarchy and its extensions to excited states and properties other than energy via the equation- of-motion (EOM)28 35and linear response (LR)36 44CC frameworks rapidly converge to the exact, full conﬁgura- tion interaction (FCI), limit.15As a result, the CCSDT, CCSDTQ, and similar methods and their EOM and LR a)Corresponding author; e-mail: piecuch chemistry.msu.ed u.extensions are capable of accurately describing typical MR situations, such as bond rearrangements in chemical reactions, singlet triplet gaps in biradicals, and excited states having substantial double excitation character, via particle hole excitations from a single determinant. TheconvergenceoftheCCSD,CCSDT,CCSDTQ,etc. hierarchy toward FCI in the majority of chemical appli- cations is fast, but to achieve a quantitative description, one has to gobeyond the basic CCSD level and face high, often prohibitive, computational costs, such as the iter- ativen3 on5 usteps of CCSDT or the even more demand- ingn4 on6 usteps of CCSDTQ ( noandnuare the numbers of correlated occupied and unoccupied orbitals, respec- tively). Thus, one of the key challenges in the develop- ment of SRCC methodologies has been the incorporation of many-electron correlation eﬀects due to higher than two-body components of the cluster operator Twithout running into the enormous computational costs of the high-level parent methods, such as CCSDT or CCSDTQ, while avoiding the failures of perturbative approxima- tions of the CCSD(T)45,46type when bond breaking, bi- radicals,andotherMRsituationsareexamined.14,15,47 49 One of the most promising ways of addressing the above challenge within the SRCC framework is oﬀered by the CC( P;Q) formalism, which allows one to cor- rect the CC and EOMCC energies obtained using con- ventional as well as unconventional truncations in the cluster and EOM excitation operators for the missing many-electron correlation eﬀects of interest using the moment expansions developed in Refs. 50 53. Focus- ing on the ground electronic states (or, in general, the lowest states of symmetries of interest, as in the case of many lowest-energy singlet, doublet, or triplet states), the CC(P;Q) methods based on correcting the CC en- ergies obtained with the conventional truncations in T at a given excitation rank reduce to the left-eigenstate completely renormalized (CR) CC approaches, such as CR-CC(2,3),54 58in which one corrects the CCSD ener- gies for the leading T3correlations, and its higher-order extensions.53,59 62The CR-CC(2,3) method improves 2 poor performance of CCSD(T) in situations involving covalent bond breaking50,54 57,60,63,64and certain types of noncovalent interactions,59,65while retaining the rela- tively inexpensive iterative n2 on4 uand noniterative n3 on4 u steps of CCSD(T), but neither CR-CC(2,3) nor its CR- CCSD(T)47,48,66,67and locally renormalized CCSD(T)68 predecessors, nor their CCSD(2) T,69 72CCSD(T) Λ,73 75 Λ-CCSD(T),76,77and CCSD(T n)78,79counterparts, de- signed to improve CCSD(T) as well, are accurate enough when the coupling of the low-order Tncomponents, such asT1andT2, and their higher-order counterparts with n 2, e.g.,T3, becomes larger.51,52One can address this issue by solving for T1andT2clusters in the pres- enceofthedominanthigher than doublyexcitedcompo- nents ofTidentiﬁed with the help of active orbitals, as in the CCSDt, CCSDtq, and similar schemes,27,31,32,49,80 85 and account for the remaining correlationeﬀects of inter- est (e.g., the T3correlations not captured by CCSDt) us- ing the CC( P;Q) moment expansions, but the resulting CC(t;3), CC(t,q;3), CC(t,q;3,4), etc. hierarchy,50 53,59,65 while accurately reproducing the parent CCSDT and CCSDTQ energetics at the fraction of the computational costs, requires choosing user- and system-dependent ac- tiveorbitals. ThequestionarisesiftheCC( P;Q)method- ologycan be similarlysuccessful without having to deﬁne active orbitals tuned to a given calculation. To address this question, we have recently proposed an automated way of identifying the leading Tncompo- nents with n 2 within the CC( P;Q) framework by merging the deterministic CC( P;Q) formalism with the stochasticconﬁgurationinteraction(CI)QuantumMonte Carlo (QMC)86 90and CC Monte Carlo (CCMC)91 94 propagations.95 97As shown in Ref. 95, the results of the semi-stochastic CC( P;Q)
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	1 Nanocarbon Based Photovoltaics Marco Bernardi,1, Jessica Lohrman,2, Priyank V. Kumar,1 Alec Kirkeminde,2 Nicola Ferralis,1 Jeffrey C. Grossman,1, and Shenqiang Ren2, 1 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 2 Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, 1251 Wescoe Hall Drive, Lawrence, KS 66045 These authors contributed equally to this work. e-mail: jcg mit.edu, shenqiang ku.edu ABSTRACT Carbon materials are excellent candidates for photovoltaic solar cells: they are Earth-abundant, possess high optical absorption, and superior thermal and photostability. Here we report on solar cells with active layers made solely of carbon nanomaterials that present the same advantages of conjugated polymer-based solar cells namely solution processable, potentially flexible, and chemically tunable but with significantly increased photostability and the possibility to revert photodegradation. The device active layer composition is optimized using ab-initio density functional theory calculations to predict type-II band alignment and Schottky barrier formation. The best device fabricated is composed of PC70BM fullerene, semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes and reduced graphene oxide. It achieves a power conversion efficiency of 1.3 a record for solar cells based on carbon as the active material and shows significantly improved 2 lifetime than a polymer-based device. We calculate efficiency limits of up to 13 for the devices fabricated in this work, comparable to those predicted for polymer solar cells. There is great promise for improving carbon-based solar cells considering the novelty of this type of device, the superior photostability, and the availability of a large number of carbon materials with yet untapped potential for photovoltaics. Our results indicate a new strategy for efficient carbon-based, solution-processable, thin film, photostable solar cells. KEYWORDS: photovoltaics, carbon, photodegradation, ab-initio materials design The energy generated from solar photovoltaics (PV) amounts to less than 1 of the total worldwide energy usage at present, for the main reason that producing a kWh of energy from PV panels costs significantly more than burning fossil fuels.1 Despite an impressive learning curve for PV technology as well as recent advances that have brought Si solar cells ever closer to the single band gap efficiency limit of 30 ,1 3 grid-parity PV remains an enormous challenge in most parts of the world. As possible alternatives to inorganic semiconductor PV technology, a number of new materials have emerged: e.g., solar cells based on conjugated polymers,4,5 small molecules6 and colloidal nanocrystals7 are justified by the possibility of utilizing thin film ( 1 µm) materials with high optical absorption, as well as using light weight flexible substrates, printable organic inks, low temperature and ambient pressure fabrication, enabling reduced device and balance of system costs.2,4 The ability to use chemical vapor or solution deposition processing is particularly exciting since products such as paper, textiles, automobiles, and building 3 materials could be coated with PV devices thus making solar cells ubiquitous. Carbon, one of the few elements known since antiquity, holds remarkable potential as a material for solar cells.8 It s abundant in the Earth s crust ( 0.2 wt. ),9 it can be found in Nature in its elemental form as graphite, diamond and coal, and it is widely used technologically with a record production among other elements of 9 Gt year.9 Nanostructured carbon allotropes have been intensively investigated in the past two decades, including single walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT),10,11 fullerenes,12 graphene13,14 and their chemical derivatives. These materials hold record values for physical properties important for PV such as carrier mobility, thermal conductivity, mechanical strength, and optical absorption, and are appealing for PV as they can be dissolved in organic solvents to deposit thin solar cell active layers from solution. Other carbon allotropes such as amorphous carbon, nanodiamonds and graphene can be deposited in thin film form on flexible substrates using chemical vapor deposition.8 While there has been intense focus on the use of carbon nanomaterials in areas such as electronics and photonics,15 the potential of carbon as the active layer material in PV is still largely unexplored. In PV, carbon materials have been mainly used as acceptors in polymer based solar cells4 6,8,16 or as transparent electrodes,8 and only recently as the main active layer components in polymer free solar cells.17 21 In these works, C60 or C70 fullerenes were evaporated to form bi-layer devices in combination with SWCNT17 19 or a composite of SWCNT rGO fullerene deposited from aqueous solution,20,21 with the highest reported efficiency to date of 0.21 for C60 (ref. 20) and 0.85 for C70 (ref. 21) for such polymer free, carbon based devices. 4 RESULTS Figure 1a shows a schematic of the carbon based solar cells fabricated in this work, which achieve a maximum efficiency of 1.3 . The active layer is entirely deposited from solution and is composed of semiconducting SWCNT (s SWCNT), the fullerene derivative PCBM,4 and reduced graphene oxide (rGO),22 forming a bulk heterojunction morphology4 made entirely of carbon nanomaterials. The active layer does not contain other constituents such as conjugated polymers or small molecules, and the atomic carbon concentration in the active layer is as high as 80 90 at. , in contrast with carbon concentrations of 40 50 at. for a typical solar cell based on P3HT polymer. The carbon material combinations considered here include small diameter s SWCNT (diameter d 0.75 1.2 nm) or large diameter s SWCNT (d 1.2 nm), together with either PC60BM or PC70BM (the latter is used for enhanced optical absorption in the visible),23 and with or without the addition of rGO. Optimized carrier extraction is achieved by using hole transport and electron blocking layers in conjunction with transparent indium tin oxide (ITO) and Al contacts (see Methods). 5 Figure 1. (a) Structure of carbon solar cells prepared in this work. Al is the top contact, TFB and PEDOT:PSS are respectively an electron blocking and a hole conducting layer deposited on top of the ITO bottom contact. For the best efficiency device, the active layer, denoted by carbon nanomaterials , contains a blend of rGO, PC70BM, and s SWCNT with a diameter of 1.2 1.7 nm. (b) Current
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Structure and Stability of the Indian Power Transmission Network Vedang Tamhane1, G Ambika1;2 1Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Tirupati, Tirupati-517507, India 2Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) TVM, Thiruvananthapuram-695551, India E-mail: g.ambika iisertvm.ac.in Abstract. We present the study on the Indian power transmission network using the framework of a complex network and quantify its structural properties. For this, we build the network structure underlying the Indian power grid, using two of its most prevalent power lines. We construct an equivalent model of an exponential network and study its structural changes with changes in two parameters related to redundancy and dead-ends. Then we analyze its stability against cascading failures by varying these two parameters using the link failure model. This helps to gain insight into the relation of network topology to its stability, and indicates how the optimum choice of these parameters can result in a power grid structure with minimum failed links. We apply the same model to study the robustness of the Indian power grid against such failures. In this case, we nd that when a link connected to a generator fails, it results in a cascade that spreads in the grid until it is split into two separate stable clusters of generators and consumers, with over one-third of its nodes nonfunctional. 1. Introduction Power grids are one of the largest engineering systems among the real-world complex networks. It has two types of nodes on it, power generators and consumers, connected with multiple types of connections, which makes it a complex network 1 . The e cient functioning of power grids requires synchronization in phase and frequency among all the nodes, which is studied using phase oscillators as nodal dynamics 2 . However, in spite of the e orts of power engineers to maintain synchrony in such power networks, failures do occur, causing undesirable disruptions to power transmission. The failure of a few nodes or links can disturb the synchrony, leading to disruption of the distribution of power and sometimes overloading. Consequently, the system is disturbed and cannot ful ll the power requirement of the loads depending on it 3 . In such cases, the power is supplied to demanding nodes via other paths, which causes overload in the remote nodes as well, resulting in sequential tripping, known as cascading failure 4 . This cascading failure is the process that leads to undesirable blackouts that can spread in the entirearXiv:2206.10366v2 physics.soc-ph 16 May 2023 Structure and Stability of the Indian Power Transmission Network 2 power grid system 5 . The blackouts of US-Canada in 2003, China in 2005 6 , Indonesia in 2005 7 and India in 2012 8 , etc. are all realistic occurrences of the same. Hence, studies on strategies to contain the failures locally to avoid blackouts are highly relevant. Due to the dynamic nature of its complex connections, control of power systems to optimize their performance is a challenge, requiring detailed knowledge of structural and dynamic stability. Several blackouts around the world in recent history have been investigated for their causes, and models to analyze cascading failure were proposed to arrive at emergency measures for prevention 6 . Recent studies indicate that the local patterns in the network topology in uence the ability of the power grid to withstand cascading failures 9 . In this, using the concept of basin stability, it is shown that dead-ends diminish the stability in the arti cially generated power grid model. The reported research on cascading failures in 5 explains how networks can evolve towards optimal topologies that attenuate the cascade. The study by Arianos et al. 10 analyzes malicious and accidental blackouts in the power grids and their tolerant nature using complex network theory. They introduce a new parameter, net ability, to quantify the performance of power grids. In 11 , a forecasting method is proposed to help identify critical transmission lines and components in the European power grid network. In 12 and 13 , the harmonic closeness approach is used to de ne load on the link, and they obtain values of a tunable parameter that can be used in distributing load among links of the network. A study on cascading failures is conducted on weighted networks in which a local weighted ow redistribution rule is implemented 14 . The Indian power grid is managed by Power System Operation Corporation Ltd. (POSOCO)(https: posoco.in ) 15 . It is the single large grid that keeps the entire nation under electri cation. It is composed of nearly 1575 important grid elements, which include power generation plants, distribution substations and consumers, connected via around 2200 connections. These connections are added in the cost-minimizing and simplest way of the tree-like scheme but carry di erent levels of electric power. The Indian power grid underwent one of its major blackouts in recent history in 2012, a ecting three of its ve regional grids. During maintenance, the outage in the Bina-Gwalior 400kV line led the entire grid to risk by overloading one of the North region grid stations beyond its safe limits. This event caused the cascade to spread in the East and the North-East regional grids. In spite of being one of the most extensive grids in the world, the Indian power grid remains understudied. A complex network approach reported to investigate the blackout of 2012 in the Indian power grid 8 uses a practical model considering the active and reactive power loads with the locally preferential load redistribution rule. In 16 , the structural vulnerability of the Indian power grid and random attacks on the same are discussed. The other studies reported include the topology and network measures of the power transmission network of Odisha 17 and West Bengal power transmission system by H Das et al. 18 . While the work of H Das et al. covers only a particular region, that by Zhang et al. 8 dates back to the last decade. So, we nd more detailed studies of its present structure, are required
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	1 Analyzing and Mitigating the Impacts of GMD and EMP Events on the Electrical Grid with PowerModelsGMD.jl Adam Mate1, Arthur K. Barnes1, Russell W. Bent1, and Eduardo Cotilla-Sanchez2 Abstract Geomagnetic disturbances and E3 high-altitude elec- tromagnetic pulse events pose a substantial threat to the elec- trical grid by adversely impacting and damaging high-voltage transmission networks and equipment. To evaluate the risks and mitigate the potential effects of these hazards, this work proposes PowerModelsGMD.jl (abbr. PMsGMD). PMsGMD is an open-source Julia package that solves for quasi-dc line ﬂow and ac power ﬂow problems in a system subjected to geomagnetically induced currents. Unlike commercially available software solutions, it is extensible and applicable to a variety of problems. The ﬂexibility of this framework is demonstrated by applying it to the problem of identifying mitigation strategies via line switching for a time-extended transformer heating problem. An overview of PMsGMD is presented in this paper: introduc- tion to its design, validation of its implementation, demonstration of its performance and effectiveness, and a description of how it may be applied to aid system-operation decisions. Index Terms power system analysis, geomagnetic disturbance, electromagnetic pulse, optimal power ﬂow, Julia, open-source. I. I NTRODUCTION High-impact low-frequency (abbr. HILF) events are the greatest threat to the continuous and reliable operation of our energy infrastructures. Such events have the potential to cause unpredictable system-wide disruptions and long-term damage in the electrical grid, a key component of the critical infrastructures. Geomagnetic disturbances (abbr. GMDs) and high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (abbr. HEMP) events are among these extreme hazards 1 , 2 . GMDs are caused by intense solar activity: charged and magnetized particles are blown away from the Sun during severe space weather, which then interact with and disrupt the Earth s magnetic ﬁeld causing rapid changes in its conﬁgura- tion. These disturbances are mainly driven by large solar ﬂares and associated coronal mass ejections during solar maximums, and by co-rotating interaction regions (high-speed solar winds) during solar minimums 3 5 . HEMP events are caused by nuclear explosions detonated high up in the atmosphere. These are series of electromagnetic waveforms, covering times from nanoseconds to hundreds of seconds, that propagate to the Earth s surface. Three main waveforms are generated during a detonation, among which the E3 late-time waveform produces electric ﬁelds with com- parable time scales and area coverage as those of geomagnetic storms. Even though GMDs tend to have higher energy, 1The authors are with the Advanced Network Science Initiative at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL ANSI), Los Alamos, NM 87544 USA. Email: famate, abarnes, rbent g lanl.gov. 2The author is with the School of Electrical Engineering and Com- puter Science, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA. Email: fecsg oregonstate.edu. LA-UR-19-29623. Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.E3 HEMP events generate high enough peak ﬁeld levels that makes them comparable to severe GMD events in terms of impact and caused damage 4 , 6 . Both GMD and E3 HEMP events pose a risk to the electrical grid by generating geomagnetically induced currents (abbr. GICs), quasi-dc currents that appear in the conductive infrastructure and ﬂow into the high-voltage network through the neutrals of power transformers 4 7 . GICs may ad- versely impact transmission networks and equipment as they have the potential to induce harmonics by causing half-cycle saturation in transformers. Harmonics may lead to the misop- eration of protective devices, causing tripping of over-current relays. Premature aging, lasting damage, or complete failure of large high-voltage transformers due to overheating and thermal degradation is also a great threat. Increased reactive power consumption, caused by the circulating GICs in the system, may lead to the loss of reactive power support and to voltage collapses. In the worst case, widespread infrastructure damage and tripping of transmission lines may result in cascading failures and extended power disruptions 8 12 . Understanding the danger that power systems face is crit- ically important. This paper presents an overview of Pow- erModelsGMD.jl1(abbr. PMsGMD), a free and open-source package for power system simulation, which was speciﬁcally designed to evaluate the risks and mitigate the impacts of the above mentioned hazards. The PMsGMD framework is implemented in Julia 13 , a high-level just-in-time compiled programming language designed speciﬁcally for scientiﬁc computing. It is an extension to the PowerModels.jl (abbr. PMs) platform 14 , a Julia JuMP package for solving and evaluating steady-state power network optimization problems. JuMP 15 is a package for mathematical programming in Julia that speciﬁes problems with algebraic constraints. The key contributions of this paper include: An extensible, open-source software for modeling GICs in power systems. The ﬁrst time-extended model of GIC that includes detri- mental effects on transformers and that is appropriate for use in a mitigation optimization setting. A detailed discussion on modeling requirements for GIC calculations. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: A review of the PMsGMD package and background of key prob- lem formulations are provided in Section II; it gives context to this work and explains design goals. Section III presents the implemented steady-state formulations, and Section IV 1https: github.com lanl-ansi PowerModelsGMD.jlarXiv:2101.05042v2 eess.SY 7 Apr 2021 2 describes the speciﬁcations of the time-extended GIC mitiga- tion problem. Section V and VI validates the implementations and provides a practical example of how this framework can be used both in planning and operations environments. Section VII ﬁnishes with a few concluding remarks. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATIONS A. Context of PMsGMD The Julia programming language 13 is a high-level, high- performance, ﬂexible dynamic language, which is appropriate for technical computing, with performance comparable to traditional statically-typed languages. Julia has many free and open-source packages available to provide speciﬁc toolkits and capabilities for diverse applications. PMs 14 is a package for power system simulation: it provides a ﬂexible platform for implementing and solving a wide range of steady-state network optimization and analysis problems; among others, it includes implementations of power ﬂow (abbr. PF), optimal power ﬂow (abbr. OPF), and optimal transmission switching (abbr. OTS) problem speciﬁcations. It relies on JuMP 15
__label__energy	Graphical Abstract Electricity-gas integrated energy system optimal operation in typical scenario of coal district con- sidering hydrogen heavy trucks Junjie Yin,Jianhua Wang,Jun You Power Grid Coal Natural Gas Network CH 4 Coa l d Hydrogen heavy trucks Hydrogen heavy trucksHydrogen load PEM Electrolysis P2H Electricity Power load Heat load Power load Heat load Methanation H2Electricity CO 2 Hydrogen refueling station H2Coal Gasification Heat Hydrogen refueling station H2Coal Gasification Heat H2H2P2M Pipeline Coal District Transport coal Energy Network C2H arXiv:2102.02620v2 eess.SY 8 Feb 2021 Highlights Electricity-gas integrated energy system optimal operation in typical scenario of coal district con- sidering hydrogen heavy trucks Junjie Yin,Jianhua Wang,Jun You Advantages of hydrogen heavy trucks in typical scenario of coal industry district are discussed. The eﬃcient closed loop of hydrogen energy from generation to utilization is proposed. P2G including power-to-hydrogen and power-to-methane is developed, combined with coal gasiﬁcation technology. The economy and low-carbon properties of the proposed IEGS mechanism are analyzed. Electricity-gas integrated energy system optimal operation in typical scenario of coal district considering hydrogen heavy trucks Junjie Yina, Jianhua Wanga, and Jun Youa aSchool of Electrical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Integrated energy system Power-to-gas Coal-to-hydrogen Hydrogen heavy trucks Second-order cone programming Optimized schedulingABSTRACT The coal industry contributes signiﬁcantly to the social economy, but the emission of greenhouse gases puts huge pressure on the environment in the process of mining, transportation, and power generation. Intheintegratedenergysystem(IES),thecurrentresearchaboutthepower-to-gas(P2G) technologymainlyfocusesontheinjectionofhydrogengeneratedfromrenewableenergyelectrolyzed waterintonaturalgaspipelines,whichmaycausehydrogenembrittlementofthepipelineandcannot be repaired. In this paper, suﬃcient hydrogen energy can be produced through P2G technology and coal-to-hydrogen (C2H) of coal gasiﬁcation, considering the scenario of coal district is rich in coal and renewable energy. In order to transport the mined coal to the destination, hydrogen heavy trucks haveabroadspacefordevelopment,whichcanabsorbhydrogenenergyintimeandavoidpotentially dangeroushydrogeninjectionintopipelinesandrelativelyexpensivehydrogenstorage. Anoptimized schedulingmodelofelectric-gasIESisproposedbasedonsecond-orderconeprogramming(SOCP). Inthemodelproposedabove,theclosedindustrialloop(includingcoalmining,hydrogenproduction, trucktransportationofcoal,andintegratedenergysystems)hasbeeninnovativelystudied,toconsume renewableenergyandcoordinatemulti-energy. Finally,anelectric-gasIESstudycaseconstructedby IEEE30-nodepowersystemandBelgium24-nodenaturalgasnetworkwasusedtoanalyzeandverify the economy, low carbon, and eﬀectiveness of the proposed mechanism. 1. Introduction 1.1. Motivations Asweallknow,thecoaldistrictisatypicallargeenergy loadofindustry. Intheproductionprocessofmining,prepa- ration, etc., coal mine machineries need to consume a lot of electricityandheat. Inaddition,heavytruckstransportcoal tovariousdestinations,whichrequiresalargeamountofen- ergytodrivetheengineandisessentialinthecoalindustrial production process. Moreover, the coal industry areas usu- ally suﬀer from serious environmental pollution problems, the main reasons include but not limited to coal dust, fac- tory emissions, vehicle exhaust, etc. Facing the tremendous environmentalpressureandresourceshortage,coaldistricts that rely on traditional energy supply methods are in urgent need of transformation. Nowadays,thedevelopmentofrenewableenergy,repre- sented by wind power (WP), solar photovoltaics (PV), etc., has become an inevitable trend. Generally speaking, coal resources are distributed in inland mountainous areas, and the local geographical features determine the abundant WP resourcesintheseareas. However,thephenomenonofaban- doning WP and PV is still serious, mainly due to the insta- bilityofrenewableenergyandthediﬃcultyofbeingdirectly integrated into traditional energy networks. Based on the above analysis, an energy mechanism for the typical coal districts has yet to be proposed. For coal districts, there are the following visions: giving full play to the advantages of rich wind energy in coal districts, design- Corresponding author wangjianhua seu.edu.cn (J. Wang) ORCID(s): 0000-0001-7782-7274 (J. Yin); 0000-0001-5185-4506 (J. Wang)ing practical and eﬀective energy supply structure systems, andrealizingsmooth,low-carbonandenvironment-friendly transportation of coal resources. As an energy output ter- minal, it has important responsibilities for the entire energy network. Therefore,thefollowinggoalsshouldbeachieved: consuming renewable energy as much as possible, breaking thestatusquooftheseparatedesignandindependentopera- tionofeachexistingenergysupplysystem,andestablishing the integrated energy system (IES), in order to promote the optimization of the energy structure and ﬁnally achieve the grand goal of carbon neutrality. 1.2. Related Work Regarding IES, many studies mainly focuse on the cou- pling and interaction of power systems and natural gas sys- tems,i.e.,integratedelectric-gassystems(IEGS) 1,2 . Ac- cording to the type of conversion gas, Power-to-gas (P2G) technologycanbedividedintotwotypes: power-to-hydrogen (P2H)conversionandpower-to-methane(P2M)conversion. The hydrogen and methane produced in P2G plants can be used in following ways 3 : (1) Furthersynthesistomethaneorotherhydrocarbonfuels through methanation equipment; (2) Injectionthemixtureofhydrogenandmethaneintonat- ural gas pipelines by hydrogen compressed natural gas (HCNG) technology 4 ; (3) Power generation with the help of internal combustion engine or combined heat and power (CHP) devices 5 ; (4) Hydrogen storage into tanks after pressurization 6 ; (5) Hydrogen refueling stations for vehicles or the use of hydrogen in industry. First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 10 Nomenclature Abbreviations C2H Coal-to-hydrogen of coal gasiﬁcation IEGS Integrated electric-gas system IES Integrated energy system P2G Power-to-gas P2H Power-to-hydrogen P2M Power-to-methane PV Photovoltaics SOCP Second-order cone programming WP Wind power Parameters and constants WPAbandoning WP punishment parameter Hot spare coeﬃcient LELLower explosive limit of H2 CH4 LFLLower ﬂammability limit of H2 CH4 UELUpper explosive limit of H2 CH4 UFLUpper ﬂammability limit of H2 CH4 CU_D i;tStart Stop cost of unit iat timet CmnWeymouth constant Hi;JiSingle start stop cost of unit i Rd;RuUnit down up ramping speed TS, TO Minimum stop start time Sets and indices NgSet of natural gas nodes ,Ng 1;2; ;m; ;Ng NLSet of load nodes ,NL 1;2; ;i; ;NL NUSet of thermal units ,NU 1;2; ;i; ;NU Variables Truck tTransport consumption coeﬃcient of hydrogen trucks fCoal H2;tFlow rate produced by C2H at the time slot t fTruck H2;tTotal hydrogen demand of heavy trucks at t Coal tEﬃciency of coal gasiﬁcation at the time slot t CH4elec;tPower consumption parameter in process of electroly- sis corresponding to CH4 CH4meth;tPowerconsumptionparameterinprocessofmethana- tion corresponding to CH4 H2;tPower consumption parameter corresponding to H2 tRatio of mined coal used as the raw material for coal gasiﬁcation at the time slot t elec;tReaction eﬃciency of PEM electrolysis at t meth;tReaction eﬃciency of methanation at t cH2_CH4Concentration percentage of H2 CH4 mThe square of the pressure value at node m m; mThreshold of the square of the pressure value of m pm;pmThreshold of pipeline pressure sm;smThreshold of natural gas source storage capacity CCO2Cost of CO2emissions Cf iCoal consumption cost of thermal power unit i Cg m;tCost of the natural gas network CWP;tPunishment cost of abandoning WP CTruck;tCost of truck transportation ConsH2;tElectricty consumption of producing H2 ECoal;tProﬁt from selling coal f H2;tH2ﬂow rate produced by P2G equipment for further methanation at t fH2;tH2ﬂowrateproducedbyP2Gequipmentforhydrogen refueling station at t fmnNatural gas ﬂow from node mto noden MtWeight of coal mined at the time slot t pmPressure value of node m Pd;i;tLoad demand for electricity of node jat timet Pi;maxMaximum output value
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	1 Predicting Strategic Energy Storage Behaviors Yuexin Bian Student Member, IEEE , Ningkun Zheng, Student Member, IEEE , Yang Zheng Member, IEEE , Bolun Xu, Member, IEEE , Yuanyuan Shi Member, IEEE Abstract Energy storage are strategic participants in elec- tricity markets to arbitrage price differences. Future power system operators must understand and predict strategic storage arbitrage behaviors for market power monitoring and capacity adequacy planning. This paper proposes a novel data-driven approach that incorporates prior model knowledge for predicting the strategic behaviors of price-taker energy storage systems. We propose a gradient-descent method to find the storage model parameters given the historical price signals and observations. We prove that the identified model parameters will converge to the true user parameters under a class of quadratic objective and linear equality-constrained storage models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through numerical exper- iments with synthetic and real-world storage behavior data. The proposed approach significantly improves the accuracy of storage model identification and behavior forecasting compared to previous blackbox data-driven approaches. Index Terms Differentiable Optimization, Energy Storage, Electricity Markets I. I NTRODUCTION Energy storage is pivotal in balancing electricity demand and supply fluctuations in future decarbonized power systems, and tremendous investments have been made in both utility- scale and behind-the-meter (BTM) energy storage in recent years. The utility-scale energy storage capacity in the US has tripled in 2021, reaching 7.8 GW storage as of Oct 2022, and is projected to reach 30 GW by 2025 1 , 2 . Additionally, the deployment rate of BTM energy storage is expected to exceed utility-scale energy storage, with the installed residential BTM energy storage capacity in the US increasing by 67 year on year in 2022 Q2, mostly paired with distributed solar PV 3 5 . Electricity markets are also removing barriers for energy storage participation, with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Order 841 ruling that all power system operators must allow storage to participate in all market ser- vices 6 and FERC Order 2222 7 extending the requirement to BTM storage. As storage capacity continues to surge, price arbitrage in the energy market, buying electricity at a low price and selling it at a high price, is becoming one of the major revenue resources for energy storage owners to participate in electricity markets and earn revenue 1 . The deregulation of electricity markets and the incentive mechanisms for investing in renewable energy resources have made energy storage devices a strategic tool for profit in these markets. These devices, operated primarily by private entities, include both behind-the-meter (BTM) and utility-scale energy storage capacities 8 . Typically, battery energy storage devices Yuexin Bian, Yang Zheng, and Yuanyuan Shi are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego. Ningkun Zheng, and Bolun Xu are with the Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering, Columbia University.have a storage duration of one to four hours 9 , and their operators must carefully design their charging and discharge strategies to capture price fluctuations and maximize profits. Energy storage devices play a critical role in enhancing power system flexibility. However, their strategic behavior can increase market volatility and undermine system robustness against load balance uncertainties 10 . An accurate prediction of energy storage strategic behaviors is essential for market efficiency and to address concerns around market power 11 . System operators can leverage the proposed algorithm for modeling the behavior of energy storage units and integrat- ing them into the dispatch optimization process. Moreover, system operators can design new tariffs that align with the storage unit s for-profit interests with certain system-level objectives 12 , 13 , such as reducing peak demand power or reducing carbon emissions. In particular, a system operator can formulate the market tariff design as a bi-level optimization problem that optimizes for social welfare objectives while ensuring that the storage behavior aligns with the identified model. Last but not least, identifying the behavior models of storage market participants holds potential for market opera- tors that are responsible for preventing market power abuse. One recent work 14 on this direction uses the proposed approach for marginal offer price recovery of conventional generation units in the wholesale power market. This paper is an extended version of our earlier confer- ence paper 15 . We have made significant extensions by proposing sequential convex programming (SCP) to extend the gradient-based approach for identifying strategic energy storage behaviors with general objective functions, which is important for practical applications where utility functions are non-quadratic, or system operators have no prior knowledge about the parametric forms of agents utility functions. The main contributions of this work are as follows: We model strategic energy storage behaviors as a general agent decision-making optimization model. We then in- troduce a novel gradient-based approach for identifying the generic agent model, which can be used to forecast strategic energy storage behaviors accurately. We provide a formal convergence guarantee for convex quadratic battery agent models with linear equality con- straints and discuss the local convergence property for problems with inequality constraints. We validate the proposed algorithm for predicting syn- thetic quadratic and generic energy storage behavior models and demonstrate its applicability on real-world datasets. Our approach accurately forecasts the strategic battery price arbitrage behaviors and outperforms simple heuristics, optimization-based methods, and competing machine-learning approaches with deep neural networks.arXiv:2306.11872v2 eess.SY 31 Jan 2024 2 We organize the remainder of the paper as follows. Sec- tion II reviews related literature. Sections III and IV present the problem formulation and solution algorithm, respectively. Section V describes case studies with synthetic data and real- world applications. Section VI concludes this paper with future directions. II. B ACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK A. Energy Storage Market Participation Under FERC Order 841 6 , energy storage can partici- pate in the market through two options: self-scheduling and economic bids. On the one hand, Self-scheduling involves submitting offers indicating discharge and charge quantities for each time interval during the upcoming operating days. On the other hand, economic bids involve submitting both prices and quantities
__label__energy	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. X, NO. X, DECEMBER 2022 1 Valuing Distributed Energy Resources for Non-Wires Alternatives Nicholas D. Laws, Student Member, IEEE, and Michael E. Webber Abstract Distributed energy resources (DER) as non-wires alternatives, regardless of owner, have the potential to reduce system operating costs and delay system upgrades. However, it is difﬁcult to determine the appropriate economic signal to incentivize DER investors to install capacity that will beneﬁt both the DER investors and the system operator. In an attempt to determine this co-optimal price signal, we present a bilevel optimization framework for determining the least cost solution to distribution system over-loads. A key output of the framework is a spatiotemporal price signal to DER owners that simultaneously guarantees the DER owners required rate of return and mini- mizes the system operation costs. The framework is demonstrated with a case by which the system operator considers utility owned battery energy storage systems, traditional system upgrades, and energy purchase from DER owners. The results show that by valuing DER for non-wires alternatives the utility owned storage system sizes can be reduced, less hardware upgrades are necessary, and upfront capital costs as well as operating costs are reduced. Index Terms Power distribution planning, Power distribution economics, Optimization methods, Non-wires Alternatives, Dis- tributed energy resources. I. I NTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND As population and electriﬁcation grow, there is pressure on local electric distribution utilities to increase overall ca- pacity and upgrade equipment to maintain high reliability. These actions include simple maintenance such as vegetation management, but also replacing and upgrading transformers, installing more lines, replacing lines with newer ones, and so forth. However, those traditional actions related to the wires and poles of the distribution system might not keep pace with load growth that will accommodate rapid electric vehicle adoption or widespread installation of electric heat pumps as a way to reduce on-site fuel use for space and water heating. As a consequence, there is an acute need for non-wires alternatives that can be used to improve overall system performance. Some of those alternatives include demand response and distributed energy resources, such as local power generation and or storage. Though distributed energy resources avoid additional load- ing on the distribution lines, traditional utility funding models do not always support their installation. Furthermore, market signals can be confusing and do not encourage DER instal- N. D. Laws is with the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, TX, USA (e-mail: nlaws utexas.edu). M. E. Webber is with the Walker Department of Mechanical Engi- neering, The University of Texas at Austin, TX, USA (e-mail: web- ber mail.utexas.edu). Manuscript received December 14, 2021.TABLE I: Nomenclature Decision Variables x2RMupper level primal decision variables y2RNlower level primal decision variables z2f0;1gKupper level primal binary decision variables 2RJlower level, dual variables for equality constraints 2RN lower level dual variables for upper bounds 2RN lower level dual variables for lower bounds Parameters V2RJ Nlower level equality constraint coefﬁcients w2RJlower level equality constraints right-hand-side y2RNupper bounds for lower level, primal decision variables y2RNlower bounds for lower level, primal decision variables a upper level scaling coefﬁcient for cost of DER energy b lower level scaling coefﬁcient for income from selling energy to upper level c2RNlower level cost coefﬁcients for lower level decisions y Sets and Indices E set of edges in the network N set of nodes in the network NDER set of nodes for potential DER investors NBESS set of nodes for potential BESS installations NTRFX set of nodes for potential transformer upgrades NLINE set of nodes for potential line upgrades S set of demand charge periods T set of time steps j set of phases connected to node j lation even though novel business models are emerging that would reduce total system cost. Given this context, this research seeks to explain how DER might be appropriately valued in light of increasing electriﬁcation and EV adoption in an era when traditional grid enhancements are hobbled by cost and policy hurdles. Early evaluations of DER for non-wires alternatives com- pared costs and beneﬁts of known DER capacities and loca- tions against capacity upgrade costs 1 . A common theme in the literature for valuing DER as non-wires alternatives accounted for the single perspective of the distribution system operator (DSO). For example, Contreras-Ocana et al . devel- oped a model that puts DER costs and beneﬁts in competition with upgrade deferrals from a single perspective, at a single location (substation or transformer) with forecasted overloads 2 . By neglecting power ﬂow constraints they were able to account for many types of DER including energy efﬁciency investments. However, without a network model the DER are presumably installed at the single, overloaded location. The valuable work by Andrianesis et al. demonstrates howarXiv:2301.06636v2 eess.SY 10 Mar 2023 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. X, NO. X, DECEMBER 2022 2 to determine a locational marginal value (LMV) of DER in a three step process, where the value of DER is determined relative to the locational marginal cost of traditional system upgrades 3 . The method in 3 also only accounts for the DSO perspective, implicitly assuming that DER will behave in a manner that best suits the system operator s cost function and constraints. Furthermore, it is assumed that the LMV is sufﬁcient to motivate DER investment and that the LMV will not motivate behavior that leads to greater operating costs or the need for additional system upgrades. The work by Garcia-Santacruz et al . is perhaps the ﬁrst to account for both the DSO and DER owner perspectives when valuing DER for non-wires alternatives 4 . The DSO perspective is represented by minimizing energy losses in a relaxed branch ﬂow model 5 . The DER owner perspective is represented by maximizing a DER utilization factor, i.e. minimizing the amount of energy curtailed. The system losses and DER utilization factors are combined in a single cost function with weighting factors that must be selected by the planner. To make their problem tractable,
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	1 A Formal Speciﬁcation Framework for Smart Grid Components Waseem Akram, and Muaz Niazi, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Smart grid can be considered as the next step in the evolution of power systems. It comprises of different entities and objects ranging from smart appliances, smart meters, generators, smart storages, and more. One key problem in modeling smart grid is that while currently there is a considerable focus on the practical aspects of smart grid, there are very few modeling attempts and even lesser attempts at formalization. To the best of our knowledge, among other formal methods, formal speciﬁcation has previously not been applied in the domain of smart grid. In this paper, we attempt to bridge this gap by presenting a novel approach to modeling smart grid components using a formal speciﬁcation approach. We use a state-based formal speciﬁcation language namely Z (pronounced as Zed ) since we believe Z is particularly suited for modeling smart grid components.We demonstrate the application of Z on key smart grid components. The presented formal speciﬁcation can be considered as ﬁrst steps towards modeling of smart grid using a Software Engineering formalism. It also demonstrates how complex systems, such as the smart grid, can be modeled elegantly using formal speciﬁcation. Index Terms Formal speciﬁcation, Smart grid, Complex Adaptive System I. I NTRODUCTION A smart grid can be considered as an advanced and radically evolved version of traditional power systems. The term smart in the smart grid exempliﬁes the use of bi-directional com- munication, artiﬁcial intelligence, Complex systems theory, modeling and simulation, and more, all employed with the goal of converting the legacy power grid into an advanced proactive and reactive system. At the lowest level however, the Smart grid can be considered as an integrated system made up of a variety of interacting components - ranging from smart appliances and smart storages to smart generators, Internet of Things (IoT), and beyond. Another key focus of the Smart grid is in the integration of renewable energy resources, such as, but not limited to, wind turbines and solar panels 1 . By integrating advanced communication and information systems, Smart grid components can communicate and coordinate with each other with the goal of constructing a sustainable and efﬁcient energy production system 2 for the future. As the size of smart grid increases, however, it is coupled with an increase in its intrinsic complexity 3 . Smart grid implies complexity 4 . To understand this complexity, it is necessary to ponder on the fact that, in any modern large- scale power system, each component can itself be dynamic in its very nature. As such, the states of the system, which are a function of and the result of emergent properties of the numerous interacting components, can also vary temporally. The result of what we see at the macro-level cannot thus be Corresponding author muaz.niazi ieee.orgeasily discernible as a direct function of the micro-level. This behavior can thus be considered as the outcome of numerous interactive events occurring in relation to each component - quite similar to a natural Complex Adaptive Systems (CAS) 5 . With so much complexity at hand, it is clear that modeling the smart grid certainly needs considerable number of practical examples and case studies 6 . It is also evident that developing various types of formalisms for the domain is needed. This will allow for the selection of better and more elegant solution to models - which in turn can be used to develop a better understanding of the complex domain. Essentially, modeling any system can be considered as an activity which allows for a better understanding of the system. In the smart grid domain, better modeling approaches can not only simplify system complexity but also allow for a better understanding and implementation of the system. Besides, it can also allow for ensuring a reduction in system failures. Formal methods provide facilities for the modeling of each component of any complex system 7 . It allows for developing models for each component of the system allowing for a clear focus on understanding consistency as well as semantic correctness. The behavior of each system can be analyzed and observed with the help of these formal models. A key beneﬁt to this approach is that it helps in the detection of faults and ﬂaws in the design phase of system development, thereby considerably improving system reliability. In previous studies, formal speciﬁcation framework has been successfully applied for the mathematical modeling of different CAS ranging across various domains. Some key examples of such work includes a formal speciﬁcation used for the modeling of AIDS spread using agent-based modeling 8 . Likewise, it has been developed for modeling the progression of researchers in their domain 9 , and for the modeling of wireless sensor networks 10 . The use of formal speciﬁcation models for modeling CAS also include studies such as 11 , 12 . Suggestions to use formal speciﬁcation for the Smart grid have also previously been mentioned in literature 13 . Another example is the use of state machine formalism 14 . However, to the best of our knowledge, the same approach has not been applied much in the domain of the smart grid domain. It is thus clear that there is a growing need to model the key components in a smart grid by means of an elegant formal framework among other tools such as noted previously 15 . Such a prudent approach allows for a better understanding of the domain besides allowing for systems to be veriﬁed using the given speciﬁcation. In this paper, we present ﬁrst steps towards a basic formal speciﬁcation modeling framework for smart grid components. We ﬁrst consider different types of entities and then elaboratearXiv:1711.09184v1 cs.LO 25 Nov 2017 2 their detailed formal speciﬁcations. The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 provides basic concept of a formal framework and a smart grid scenario is discussed. Section 3 presents formal speciﬁcation of different entities of smart grid
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	1 An Analytical Model for Stepwise Adiabatic Driver Energy Consumption Eric J. Carlson , Joshua R. Smith Abstract This paper presents a complete closed -form analytical model for determining the per-cycle energy consumption of stepwise adiabatic drivers used for driving a capacitive load such as a power FET gate. The model takes into account the number of steps used, the stepwise driver tank capacitance, the load capacitance, and the stepwise driver switch resistance and on-time. Model accuracy is compared to that of simulation and models from previous work . This paper was written to supplement the paper titled A 0.5 -mV-Minimum -Input DC -DC Converter with Stepwise Adiabatic Gate -Drive and Efficient Timing Control for Thermoelectric Energy Harvesting , submitted to IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers , on July 26th, 2022. 2 1 Introduction With the developments of the Internet of Things and low-power battery -operated or battery -free devices, numerous techniques have been employed to reduce power consumption of electrical circuits. One such technique is adiabatic charging of capacitive loads that must be charged discharged periodically, such as large power FETs in DC -DC converters 1 , clock lines 2 , capacitive touch sensors 3 , or others 4 , 5 . Inherently , a capacitive load does not consume energy itself when driven with a periodic changi ng voltage ; however, traditional drivers dissipate energy in the process of driving the voltage due to the intrinsic properties of the driver. Adiabatic charging reduces this inherent energy dissipation , and stepwise charging is one such adiabatic techniqu e. In order to properly optimize the design of a stepwise driver, an accurate analytical model of the stepwise driver energy consumption is needed. Prior works 6 , 7 , 8 provide formulas to model this energy consumption , but all are inaccurate when voltage steps are not given time to fully settle. Park 3 provides the foundation of a model that does not have such a limitation, but stops short of deriving a complete closed -form formula . This paper presents a complete closed -form analytical formula for calculating stepwi se driver energy that is accurate for any amount of step settling . This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides an overview of stepwise charging, Section 3 derives an analytical model of the stepwise driver energy consumption, Section 4 compares the model accuracy to that of simulation and to the models of other works, and Section 5 concludes this paper. 2 The Stepwise Driver Stepwise charging involves driving the capacitive load to intermediate voltages in a stepping pattern when transitioning the load voltage vLoad from low to high and then from high to low , as shown in Figure 1. There are variations of how the intermediate voltages are generated 8 . The focus of this work is on the first and simplest variation, introduced in 6 , 9 . The intermediate voltages Vk are held by capacitors CTank ,k which naturally become evenly spaced between 0 V and supply voltage VDD in steady - state, after several step -high step -low transitions have been performed 6 . In practice, h ow evenly - spaced the Vk voltages settle to depend s on how large the tank capacitance CTank is compared to load capacitance CLoad and how much time each step is given to settle. The number of rising falling steps in a stepwise driver is defined as N. A stepwise driver has N 1 CTank capacitors, N rising -edge switches SR, and N falling -edge switches SF. In an application such as in 1 , the falling -edge switches need to be much lower resistance than the rising -edge switches to enable fast falling transitions . If the resistance of the switches can be equal, then SR,k and S F,N k (for k 1 to N 1) can be one and same device as in 9 . The amount of time that each rising step is given to settle is TSR,k and the amount of time that each falling step is given t o settle is TSF,k. Figure 1 shows an N 5 stepwise driver. The vLoad voltage at the end of each rising step is defined as VLoad,R, k, such that VLoad,R, 1 is the voltage at the end of the first step and VLoad,R, N is the voltage at the end of the last step . Here, it is assumed that the final step fully settles, such that VLoad,R, N VDD. VLoad,R, 0 0 V is the pedestal the starting point of the rising edge . The vLoad voltage at the end of each falling step is defined as VLoad,F, k, such that VLoad,F, 0 VLoad, R,N VDD and VLoad,F, 1 is the first falling step. The final falling step, VLoad,F, N, is assumed to fully settle, such that VLoad,F, N VLoad, R,0 0 V. 3 From 6 , in the most ideal case, where CTank CLoad, SR and SF are ideal switches , and all steps fully settle , then the energy consumed by the stepwise driver to complete one charge discharge cycle is 𝐸Load -Driver 𝐶Load𝑉DD2 𝑁. (1) A single step driver of N 1 is identical to conventional driver that steps directly from 0 V to VDD. The next section explains how to calculate the ELoad -Drive r energy for the non -ideal case. Figure 1. Schematic and waveforms of an N 5 stepwise driver. 3 Stepwise Driver Energy Consumption This section calculates the amount of energy consumed by a stepwise adiabatic driver like the one shown in Figure 1 based on the following parameters: The number of st eps: N The load capacitance: CLoad The tank capacitance: CTank The rising -edge switch ( SR) resistance: RSR The falling -edge switch (SF) resistance: RSF The rising -edge switch ( SR) on-time: TSR The falling -edge switch ( SF) on-time: TSF The switch quality factor (defines the energy required to turn a switch SR SF on then off, for a
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	Hybrid System for Solar Energy Conversion with Nano -Structured Electrodes M.M. Nishchenko1, M A Shevchenko1, E A Tsapko1, A A Frolov2, G A Frolov2, L. L. Sartinska2, A. I. Blanovsky3 1Kurdumov Institute for Metal Physics, NAS of Ukraine, 2Frantsevich Institute for Problems of Materials Science, NAS of Ukraine 3Westside Environmental Technology (WETC), Los Angeles, CA, USA Abstract Solar energy is clean and renewable but has a low flux density around 1 kW m2. The lack of a continuous and reliable power supply reduces their average daily output to 3 7 kWh m². Since the infrared part is not utilized to produce electricity, c onventional photovoltaic (PV) cells use only about half of the solar spectrum. Direct radiation flux is also necessary for solar Stirling engine (SE) to work efficiently (33 ). The hybrid system can largely overcome these problems. The design combines the PV and energy storage -integrated SE or thermal field emission (TFE) technologies in th e same concentrating solar power (CSP) system, providing a great potential in terms of energy production per unit area. The PV cells can be deposited on the CSP main mirror to allow the system to collect and convert the diffuse component of the light. The design allows utilization of existing equipment, particularly a high-grade (around 7000 C) parabolic dish or midgrade (around 3000C) Fresnel concentrator for rooftop installation. To optimize the use of solar energy , beam splitter s thermally decouple the modules by splitting the solar spectrum into three spectral ranges and directing visible , ultraviolet and infrared radiation into the PV cells, gate Cs-filled gap and cavity -type solar receiver , respectively . A photon -enhanced gate electrode creates on the cathode surface an electrostatic field large enough to compensate space charge field and initiates TFE process. In the TFE cathodes with nano - structured surfaces, the current density can reach values close to the field emission limit. The design of the electrodes based on n ano-structured emission materials were experimentally explored by the co-author s. In the se experiments, e fficiency of heat-to-electric ity conversion was investigated and conditions for advanced nano -materials applicat ion for harvesting solar energy were found. Keywords: solar -to-electric al energy converters, thermal field emission , photovoltaic cell , solar Stirling engine , concentrating solar power system , beam splitting, nano -structure d electrodes. 1. Introduction Advances in nano -materials research are at the heart of solar power technologies. Particularly, nano -materials promise efficient and highly emissive thermionic surfaces central to the design of highly efficient heat -to-electric ity conversio n devices. The pro posed nano -material based TFE solar energy converter could perform at much lower temperatures than conventional thermionic (TE) converters. The converter s have no highspeed moving parts , lower maintenance cost and be able to deliver reliable electricity production over a long service life. Unlike the TE devices that operate at temperatures well above 1, 500 C, t he TFE electrodes could operate at temperatures as low as 650 750 C. This technology could be offered for industrial or domestic use and could be installed alongside or integrated into conventional solar power plants. Recently , synthesis and characterization of nano -materials were performed to form electronically active CSP structures . Also, p roces s of gas ionization under the influence of solar radiation at different conditions were analyz ed. 2. Thermionic Experiment It is well known that nano -tubes, nano wires, nano whiskers can serve as concentrators of the electric field and, therefore, they can be effectively used in the electrodes of thermo emission converters. This follows from the quantum nature of these effects in nano -structured materials. Moreover , the position of energy levels depends on interlayer spacing and structural defects. Thin edges of nano -tubes with the radius of curvature r 1 -10 nm in the electric field of positive ions or gate electrodes will multiplied field for a few orders. Therefore, a potential barrier for electron (effect Schottky) and power los ses will decrease significantly 1 -6 . Samples of multi -walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) were synthesized by catalytic pyrolysis of ethylene. Catalysts Al 3FeMo 0,21 and Al 3FeMo 0,07 were used. A catalyst was mixed up with high dispersed pyrogenous silica (A -300) during 5 min in a mixer. S ynthesis of multi -walled carbon nano -tubes was performed in a cylinder quartz reactor with t he electro mechanic rotation of reactor. Obtained nano -tubes were pickled by mixture of the solution of ammonium bifluoride and muriatic acid for purification from mineral impurities. As a result, two types of carbon nano -tubes have been produced: nano -tubes without defects and nano -tubes with dislocations. Th e mean diameter of the MWCNT is about 11 nm and interlayer spacing is about 3,5 nm. MWCNT can consist up to 10 graphene layers. Electron emission of samples composed of mixture of multi -walled carbon nano -tubes (MWCNT) and expanded graphite (EG) under concentrated solar radiation (in a mode of short circuit and in a mode of idling) has been studied . Recently, a solar energy conversion system was developed for investigation of nano -structured material emissi on properties at 0,1 Pa vacuum . In the past conceptual experiments, solar radiation struck the 2 m diameter mirror, reflecting radiation through the quartz window of the vacuum chamber and heating the nanostructure cathode by focusing on the surface of the cathode as a s pot with diameter of about 10mm (Fig. 1) . Fig. 1. (a) A vacuum chamber and (b) Emission current ( I ) versus a temperature of the cathode . Nondestructive methods such as a p ositron annihilation spectroscopy was used to study the state and electron structure of nano -materials at a new level . Nano -structured material study is based on the tendency of positrons to get trapped in low electron density regions, where they annihilate with electrons emitting gamma rays, which carry unique information about atomic order defects in solids and free volumes through energy and
__label__energy	Accepted with minor revisions by TNNLS Special Issue on Learning in Nonstationary and Evolving Environments Learning Geo-Temporal Non-Stationary Failure and Recovery of Power Distribution Yun Wei1, Chuanyi Ji1, Floyd Galvan2, Stephen Couvillon2, George Orellana2, James Momoh3 1Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332 0250 2Entergy Services, Inc., New Orleans, LA 70053 3Howard University, NW Washington, DC, 20059 Email:fyunwei, jichuanyig gatech.edu Abstract Smart energy grid is an emerging area for new applications of machine learning in a non-stationary environ- ment. Such a non-stationary environment emerges when large- scale failures occur at power distribution networks due to external disturbances such as hurricanes and severe storms. Power distribution networks lie at the edge of the grid, and are especially vulnerable to external disruptions. Quantiﬁable approaches are lacking and needed to learn non-stationary behaviors of large-scale failure and recovery of power distri- bution. This work studies such non-stationary behaviors in three aspects. First, a novel formulation is derived for an entire life cycle of large-scale failure and recovery of power distribution. Second, spatial-temporal models of failure and recovery of power distribution are developed as geo-location based multivariate non-stationary GI(t) G(t) 1queues. Third, the non-stationary spatial-temporal models identify a small number of parameters to be learned. Learning is applied to two real-life examples of large-scale disruptions. One is from Hurricane Ike, where data from an operational network is exact on failures and recoveries. The other is from Hurricane Sandy, where aggregated data is used for inferring failure and recovery processes at one of the impacted areas. Model parameters are learned using real data. Two ﬁndings emerge as results of learning: (a) Failure rates behave similarly at the two different provider networks for two different hurricanes but differently at the geographical regions. (b) Both rapid- and slow-recovery are present for Hurricane Ike but only slow recovery is shown for a regional distribution network from Hurricane Sandy. Index Terms Non-stationarity, queuing model, mixture model, real data I. I NTRODUCTION Non-stationary modeling and learning have been widely applied to many applications 1 2 . This work contributes a new application in an emerging area of smart energy grid. The application is on learning from failure data how distributed power networks respond to external disturbances such as hurricanes. Learned knowledge provides understanding how power networks fail and recover in severe weather. Such understanding is a prerequisite of modernizing our power infrastructure. Power distribution networks lie at the edge of the energy grid, delivering medium and low voltages to residence and organizations 3 . Distribution networks consist of leaf nodes of the energy infrastructure and are thus susceptible to external disturbances. For example, natural disasters cause wide-spread destructions and service disruptions to distribution networks 4 5 . There were about 16 major hurricanes and severe storms occurred in north America in the past 5 years 6 , each of which disrupted electricity services from 500,000 to several million customers for days 6 . Existing approaches rely primarily on empirical approaches for large-scale failures of power distribution. For example, empirical studies have been conducted on assessing dam- ages from large-scale power failures (see 7 and references therein). Monitoring systems have been used in power industry to respond to failures (see 8 as examples). As hurricanes and severe storms appear to occur frequently and at a large- scale 6 , empirical approaches become inadequate for real time failure assessment in a wide geographical area 9 . Furthermore, recovery from large-scale power failures is even less understood. This is evidenced by how difﬁcult it was for utilities to provide accurate recovery time to customers 9 . Overall, quantiﬁable approaches are lacking and needed for characterizing how power distribution networks respond to external disturbances. This is important for discovering and mitigating vulnerabilities for enhancing the power infrastruc- ture 10 11 . Unique challenges emerge for quantifying how power distri- bution networks respond to large-scale external disturbances. The ﬁrst is randomness. External disturbances such as hurri- canes exhibit random behaviors. The resulting power failures occur randomly also. The second is dynamic nature of failures and recoveries due to evolution of external disturbances. For example, a hurricane usually has a landfall with a strong force wind, and then gradually dies down when moving in land. Hence, non-stationarity (randomness and dynamics) is an intrinsic characteristic of large-scale failures. Non-stationary learning is a natural approach for quantify- ing non-stationary large-scale failure and recovery of power distribution induced by external disturbances. However, an additional challenge for learning is lack of data. This may appear to be a paradox: A large-scale external disturbance such as a hurricane often results in thousands of power failures, which amounts to a lot of data. However, in the space of external disturbances, a hurricane generates only one sample, i.e., a snap-shot of network failures and recoveries from one external disturbance. Hence, data from an individual disturbance is valuable and should be used to enable learning. Note that using real data for studying large-scale power 1arXiv:1304.7710v1 cs.SY 29 Apr 2013 2 failures and recoveries is not yet a common practice for the power infrastructure. Real data on power failures from external disturbance is rare 12 13 . A recent work shows the strength of combining algorithmic approaches with real data on geo- graphically correlated power failures 14 . The focus there is on power transmission rather than distribution. Incorporating all challenges, a basic research question we intend to answer is how to learn non-stationary behaviors of large-scale failure and recovery for distributed power distribu- tion, using real data from one external disturbance? Combining model-based and data-driven methods is a viable approach for limited samples 15 . A model identiﬁes pertinent quantities that determine non-stationary random processes of failure and recovery. We ﬁrst derive a problem formulation to obtain a model. What remains unknown are model parameters, which can be learned from data. Such a combination of model-based and data-driven approaches directs learning to a small number of functions or parameters, and thus makes effective use of data. In addition, a combination of model-based and data-
__label__energy	SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER SYSTEMS 1 Gershgorin Disc-based V oltage Stability Regions for DER Siting and Control in Distribution Grids J. Swartz, E.L. Ratnam, A. Bhardwaj and A. von Meier Abstract As a consequence of the transition to distributed and renewable energy systems, some distribution system opera- tors are increasingly concerned about power quality, including steady-state voltage volatility. In this paper, we study the control of real and reactive power injections by inverter-based distributed energy resources to regulate voltage magnitudes and phase angles measured by sensors positioned across 3- phase unbalanced distribution grids. Our proposed controllers are agnostic to the location and type of communications sup- porting energy resource operations. To design the controllers, we apply the Gershgorin Disc Theorem and determine analytic stability regions in terms of renewable energy operating parameters and grid impedances. The stability regions yield direct relationships between renewable energy system siting and the convergence of voltage phasors to references. Beyond deﬁning stability regions, we compute ranges of stable oper- ating parameters for renewable energy systems that promote operational ﬂexibility by including customer economics. By means of a case study on the IEEE 123-node test circuit, we observe our approach to coordinating renewable energy systems achieves non-oscillatory voltage regulation and reduces the duration of voltage violations by 26 . Index Terms distributed control, grid-integration, renew- able energy systems, stability regions, voltage regulation. I. I NTRODUCTION Over the last decade, there has been unprecedented growth in the number of renewable energy systems con- nected to power grids in locations around the world 1 , 2 . The resources are often connected to distribution-level power grids in a distributed manner, producing energy at locations that are coincident with power loads. Distributed energy resources (DERs) can be supply-side resources such as solar photovoltaics (PV), demand-side resources such as ﬂexible loads, or energy storage technologies such as batteries that operate as generators or loads. Through the coordination of large populations of DERs, we can defer the construction (or incentivise the retirement) of traditional fossil fuel generators 3 . Since DERs are often situated behind the meter of utility customers, it is imperative to both customers and utilities to support DER coordination that delivers power efﬁciently and ensures power quality. However, many existing DER installation programs allow the customer to independently control their resources without visibility of the impact on power quality across the grid. For example, rooftop solar PV installations are typically operated to output the maximum amount of real power available 4 , which has caused elec- trical equipment such as inverters to trip ofﬂine due to the increased grid voltages 5 . Traditional voltage regulation devices such as load-tap changers, line voltage regulators, and capacitors banks are not always effective in mitigating J. Swartz and A. von Meier are with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California, Berke- ley, California, USA. E.L. Ratnam and A. Bhardwaj are with the School of Engineering at the Australian National University, Canberra, Australia. Corresponding author e-mail: jaimie.swartz berkeley.edu.high voltage variability caused by solar PV 6 8 . Inverter- based DERs, whether owned by utilities or customers, have the potential to inject power that mitigates voltage excursions at the customer point of common coupling if designed appropriately. The recent literature on voltage control in distribution circuits explores opportunities for DER to inject power using measurements of voltages at DER terminals. With the introduction of IEEE 1547 standard 4 , the prevailing voltage control function for DERs has become droop volt- var control (DVVC). However, various works have demon- strated that voltage oscillations can arise from DVVC 9 , 10 . In response, the authors in 11 , 12 derive conditions on the DVVC operating parameters that prevent voltage oscillations. Building on conditions against oscillations, the authors in 13 compute optimal droop volt-var and droop volt-watt parameters that also prevent voltage oscillations. To complement voltage regulation objectives achieved with droop control, the authors in 14 solve an optimization problem that also improves energy savings for customers subscribed to time-based electricity pricing schedules. More recently, the authors in 6 , 15 proposed incremental volt- var control that achieves tighter voltage regulation, while accompanying the approach with conditions that prevent voltage oscillations. Though the aforementioned works are effective at regulating distribution voltages, the authors in 16 prove that for volt-var control to guarantee voltage convergence (i.e., to mitigate steady-state voltage excursions and voltage oscillations), some level of communication between DERs is necessary. Beyond guaranteeing voltage stability, DER control leveraging an inter-DER communica- tion network potentially provides opportunities to improve economic savings for behind-the-meter customers 17 . Achieving voltage stability in distribution circuits be- comes more challenging when there are a limited number of DERs and several locations at which to regulate voltages. The authors in 18 site a single DER at the end of the 30- bus single phase feeder to improve voltages along the feeder. The authors in 6 , 7 site incremental volt-var controllers at ﬁve evenly spaced edge nodes along the single phase 42- bus and 56-bus network, respectively. The authors in 16 site DERs at two particular nodes on the IEEE 123-node feeder to solve a distributed optimal power ﬂow problem. None of these aforementioned works provide guidance on how to site the DERs, speciﬁcally they do not analyze how the arrangement of DERs impacts voltage regulation performance. One exception is the work in 15 . After siting incremental volt-var DERs at all nodes of the network, the authors in 15 derive a stability region that shows DER siting at feeder extremities reduces the range of operating states that guarantee convergence to safe operating voltages. Several authors have proposed characterizing stability regions to provide ﬂexibility in selecting inverter controlarXiv:2212.06275v1 eess.SY 12 Dec 2022 SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER SYSTEMS 2 parameters that satisfy changing grid conditions 19 , 20 . Speciﬁcally, the authors in 19 compute a stability region comprised of incremental volt-var operating parameters. The operating parameters can be adjusted independently within
__label__energy	A Review on Hydrogen Production Technologies and Its Future Demand Mohammad Abubakr1, Suhaib Shahid2, and Iram Arman3 1 Department of Chemical Engineering, Z.H.College of Engg. Technology, A.M.U., Aligarh, U.P 2 Department of Mechanical Engineering , Z.H.College of Engg Technology, A .M.U., Aligarh, U.P 3 Department of Chemical Engineering, Z.H.College of Engg. Technology, A.M.U., Aligarh, U.P Presenting Author s Email Id: mohammadabubakr037 gmail.com , mohdsuhaib262 gmail.com Abstract Hydrogen production is a vital process in the quest for decarbonization and a sustainable future. This conversation explores the various technologies used in hydrogen production, such as steam methane reforming, electrolysis, and biomass gasification. These methods have different applications and efficiencies, but all contribute to the production of hydrogen gas. The future of hydrogen prod uction looks promising, as it offers a clean and versatile energy source that can be used in various sectors, including transportation, industry, and power generation. The increasing demand for hydrogen in these sectors, coupled with the global push for de carbonization, highlights the importance of advancing hydrogen production technologies and infrastructure. This paper focuses broadly on different methods of hydrogen production like steam methane reforming, electrolysis, and biomass gasification. Steam methane reforming is currently the most common method, accounting for about 95 of global hydrogen production. Electrolysis is another method that uses electricity to split water into h ydrogen and oxygen. Biomass gasification involves converting organic materials into hydrogen gas through a thermochemical process. The renewable energy sources considered are water and biomass and the methods considered are Electrolysis (grid), thermolysis, thermochemical water splitting, photoelectrochemical water splitting, and gasification. Electrolysis of water to produce hydrogen accounts for about 5 of the total hydrogen prod uction. Statistic ally, global hydrogen production reached about USD 155.35 billion in 20 22, with the majority of it being used in the petroleum refining and ammonia production industries. As for applications, hydrogen can be used as a fuel for fuel cell vehicles, as a feedstock for chemical processes, and as a storage medium for renewable energy. It can also be blended with natural gas for heating and cooking purposes. The potential applica tions of hydrogen are vast and varied, and its future demand is expected to increase as countries strive to reduce carbon emissions and transition to a more s ustainable energy system. Keywords: Electrolysis, Gasification, Hydrogen Production, Renewable energy, Storage Fig. 1. The Hydrogen Production Methods 2 . Fig. 2. Hydrogen demand in Industry 3 . Fig. 3. Sources of Hydrogen Production 3 . 1. Introduction At the moment, energy consumption and supply patterns are clearly not sustainable from an environmental, economic, or social perspective. In the absence of a clear solution, increasing the rate at which fossil fuels are used would increase worries about the safety of energy reserves and human -caused greenhous e gas emissions. In order for governments and commercial sectors to proceed in the correct direction, environmentally friendly energy generation technologies must be implemented according to a clear pla n. Therefore, for long -term energy sustainability and global security, decarbonizing the energy supply through alternative clean, sustainable, and renewable energy is crucial 1 . According to the literature, hydrogen -based energy storage systems, also known as the hydrogen economy, are paving the way for a society that uses only renewable energy sources 1 . Hydrogen is considered the finest alternative energy carrier of the future , because of its higher energy density on a mass basis, lower environmental obstacles, existence in various forms throughout the universe, and potential to be transformed into useful chemicals or electricity . Hydrogen is a fuel that may be produced from a variety of sources and used in a multitude of applications throughout the energy industry. This review paper gives a n overview of several different hydrogen production techniques, comprising biomass gasification, electrolysis, and fossil fuel reforming . Electrolysis is considered one of the well -known approaches for hydrogen generation and is regarded as one of the effective methods for water dissociation 2 . Thermochemical water decomposition or thermolysis is a high-temperature process of decomposing water . In Photo Electrochemical hydrogen is produced using one or two photo -electrodes fabricated by semiconductor materials provided to generate electricity through solar energy. Biomass mainly contains Steam gasification and Supercritical water gasification processes for the production of hydrogen. A hydrogen economy has long been promoted as a groundbreaking aspect of a low -carbon future. we project that the global hydrogen demand could reach over 2.3 Gt annually, compared to the 90 Mt per year used today 3 . Fig. 4. Electrolysis of water . 2. Methodologies of Hydrogen Production 2.1 Water Electrolysis Water electrolysis methods are categorized by the electrolyte used to separate the anode (oxygen evolution reaction) and cathode (hydrogen evolution reaction). The main technologies are Alkaline Electrolysis , Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Electrolysis (PEM), and Solid Oxide Electrolysis (SOE). Alkaline Electrolysis facilitates the breakdown of water at the cathode into hydrogen and HO -. The HO - ions then traverse through the electrolyte and a partitioning diaphragm or membrane, eventually reaching the anode, where they release O 2. The electrolyte contains 20 -40 NaOH or KOH in water. Operating conditions are 343 -363 K at pressures up to 3 MPa 4 . Alkaline electrolysis technology offers several advantages, including its straightforward and user -friendly operation, the absence of the need for costly catalysts, and its extended lifespan. Reported energy efficiency values for alkaline electrolysis have reached as high as 85 , although these figures may vary across different studies, ranging from around 80 to 77 . The partial reaction at the electrodes is given by: 2H 2O 2e- H2 2OH- Cathode 2OH- 0.5O 2 H 2O 2e- Anode Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) electrolysis operates in a corrosive acidic environment, requiring noble metal catalysts like iridium and platinum for anode and cathode reactions. Water is oxidized at the anode, producing O 2 and releasing H ions, which travel through the membrane and are reduced to hydrogen at the cathode 4 . The polymer electrolyte membrane exhibits remarkably
__label__energy	IoT-based Analysis for Smart Energy Management Guang-Li Huang, Adnan Anwar, Seng W. Loke, Arkady Zaslavsky, and Jinho Choi School of Information Technology, Deakin University, Geelong, Australia belinda.huang,adnan.anwar,seng.loke,arkady.zaslavsky,jinho.choi deakin.edu.au Abstract Smart energy management based on the Internet of Things (IoT) aims to achieve optimal energy utilization through real-time energy monitoring and analyses of power consumption patterns in IoT networks (e.g., residential homes and offices) supported by wireless technologies - this is of great significance for the sustainable development of energy. Energy disaggregation is an important technology to realize smart energy management, as it can determine the power consumption of each appliance from the total load (e.g., aggregated data). Also, it gives us clear insights into users daily power-consumption-related behaviours, which can enhance their awareness of power-saving and lead them to a more sustainable lifestyle. This paper reviews the state- of-the-art algorithms for energy power disaggregation and public datasets of power consumption. Also, potential use cases for smart energy management based on IoT networks are presented along with a discussion of open issues for future study. Index Terms Smart Energy Management, Energy Disaggre- gation, IoT-based, Power consumption I. I NTRODUCTION The sustainable use of energy is one of the biggest chal- lenges that our society is facing today 1 . As the demand for energy (e.g., electricity) continues growing, it would be significant if we could use and manage energy in a smarter way (i.e., smart energy management). Statistically, the main power use can be divided into two major categories: commercial and residential electricity consumption, namely, mainly lighting and using household devices. Since a considerable portion of the power consumption is closely related to people s indoor activities, such as cooking with a microwave or oven in the kitchen, using a computer laptop or printer at work, watching TV or listening to music as entertainment, heating, cooling, and so on, monitoring the energy consumption, analyzing power usage patterns and recognizing the residents electricity- consumption behaviors will help better energy management. To effectively analyze power usage patterns for optimal energy utilization, the premise is that the power consumption of each device can be accurately obtained. Early statistics- based methods collected the data by deploying measurement equipment to each device to enable fine-grained energy mon- itoring. Due to the requirement for pre-installation and extra cost, this kind of method is not popular. The Non-intrusive Load Monitoring (NILM) technology began to attract wide The Centre for New Energy Technologies, C4NET has contributed to the funding of this project. C4NET acknowledges the major funding contribution of the Victorian Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning and its Core Participants. The views expressed herein are not necessarily the views of C4NET or the Victorian State Government and neither party accepts responsibility for any information or advice contained herein.attention as early as the 1990s 2 3 , which aims to de- termine the energy consumption of each individual appliance based on the detailed analysis of the total load. That is, the characteristics of the appliance (e.g., the real and reactive power) is used as unique signatures for each appliance, and devices can be discern from the aggregated data, namely, energy disaggregation 4 . The Internet-of-Things (IoT) is to connect devices and sensors through the Internet and there are a number of IoT applications such as smart cities, smart factory, and so on 5 . To support wireless connectivity for things (i.e., devices and sensors), various technologies can be considered with short- range and long-range connectivity 6 . In most IoT applica- tions, while sensors and devices are expected to transmit their measurements (e.g., thermometer sensors send their temper- ature readings), they can also be used to send power con- sumption data (e.g., smart plugs). Thus, IoT networks become capable of supporting smart energy management through data analytics 7 . In particular, the energy disaggregation used in individual homes or offices can be performed simultaneously on a large-scale in tens or hundreds of homes or offices via IoT networks, which raises the possibility of large-scale smart energy management, e.g., over neighbourhoods, or suburbs. In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art algorithms for energy power disaggregation and public datasets of power con- sumption, present potential use case scenarios for smart energy management based on IoT networks, and discuss challenges and open issues for future research. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the high-level framework of IoT networks for smart energy management. Section III presents energy disaggrega- tion in terms of concepts, algorithms, and analysis of energy usage patterns. Section IV summarizes the public datasets used for energy power disaggregation. Section V proposes potential use-case scenarios and discusses open issues. Section VI concludes the paper. II. S MART ENERGY MANAGEMENT IoT networks can help collect datasets from appliances and devices at homes and offices to understand power consumption patterns by individuals and guide users for smart energy usage. As shown in Fig. 1, we assume that an IoT network is deployed at a home and a number of appliances and devices are connected to a local home server (directly or indirectly through smart plugs), which is able to perform data analytic and train models to understand power consumption patterns.arXiv:2311.18643v1 eess.SY 26 Aug 2023 Fig. 1. An illustration of IoT network for smart energy management. We assume that different technologies can be used for wireless connectivity. For example, WiFi, Zigbee, or bluetooth can be used. The roles of the local home server for smart energy management are as follows: i. Collecting real-time power consumption data from appli- ances and devices ii. Training machine learning (ML) models to perform power disaggregation and user detection iii. Recommending smart energy usage for users Note that for the third role, the local home server needs to access the cloud to find the energy cost at a given time and duration so that it can provide a recommendation to individuals to lower the energy cost. If all the appliances and devices are directly connected with with wireless transceivers to the local
__label__energy	On the Kite-Platform Interactions in Offshore Airborne Wind Energy Systems: Frequency Analysis and Control Approach Sofia Trombini, Edoardo Pasta, Lorenzo Fagiano Abstract This study investigates deep offshore, pumping Airborne Wind Energy systems, focusing on the kite-platform interaction. The considered system includes a 360 m2soft-wing kite, connected by a tether to a winch installed on a 10-meter-deep spar with four mooring lines.Wind power is converted into electricity with a feedback controlled periodic trajectory of the kite and corresponding reeling motion of the tether.An analysis of the mutual influence between the platform and the kite dynamics, with different wave regimes, reveals a rather small sensitivity of the flight pattern to the platform oscillations; on the other hand, the frequency of tether force oscillations can be close to the platform resonance peaks, resulting in possible increased fatigue loads and damage of the floating and submerged components. A control design procedure is then proposed to avoid this problem, acting on the kite path planner. Simulation results confirm the effectiveness of the approach. I. INTRODUCTION Airborne Wind Energy Systems (AWES) convert high-altitude wind energy using a tethered aircraft, or kite 1 , 2 . AWES can reach altitudes higher than 300 m above ground, where winds are strong with high probability, yielding large capacity factors 3 . Moreover, they can be manufactured, transported and installed at low cost, thanks to the absence of large monolithic components, making them appealing for remote locations. These features make AWES a strong candidate technology to complement traditional wind energy and solar PV and increase the overall penetration of renewables in our energy mix, towards the goals of net-zero emissions set by most countries 4 . The main drawback of AWE technologies is the rather high operational complexity, mostly residing in the automation and control system 2 . In the past 20 years, AWES development has significantly increased. Today, pre-series production of onshore and inland systems in the 100-kW range, grid connected in remote locations, has started, and there is a well-established community of companies and academic institutions that are conducting extensive research on the various involved aspects 5 , 2 . Most activities pertain to inland systems, which are more accessible and cheaper for research and development than offshore ones. However, the latter hold the promise of a huge potential impact, in particular for deep offshore locations, where the key advantages of AWES can pave the way to economic viability and environmental sustainability at large scale. In fact, the expected mass of the floating platform for AWES is a rather small fraction than the one required by offshore horizontal-axis wind turbines, thanks to the center of gravity and applied force being close to the sea surface, thus abating the transportation and installation costs. Moreover, the offshore wind resources are abundant already below 300m, so that, thanks to the possibility to harvest energy at different altitude layers (thus limiting the wake interactions), AWES farms can be arranged compactly, reaching a rather high unit density per occupied surface area 6 . Notwithstanding its promising features, there are currently very few contributions in the literature on deep offshore AWES. In 7 and 8 , this concept is evaluated using a simplified model. The results indicate technical feasibility, yet considerable platform displacements are observed, while the kite-floater interactions are not treated in detail. Regarding real-world installations, the company Makani Power 9 attempted a medium-scale (500 kW) offshore system deployment in Norway in 2019. Unfortunately, the company operations ended after a few months. This paper contributes to advance the knowledge on offshore AWES, focusing on the kite-platform interaction. A pumping AWE system is considered, which converts wind power into electricity with a feedback-controlled periodic trajectory of the kite and corresponding reeling motion of the tether. In contrast to 8 , the kite model is not mass-less and the tether is a nonlinear spring with elastic constant depending on its length, whereas in 8 it was assumed to be a rigid rod. The first contribution is an analysis of the mutual influence between the platform and the kite dynamics, with different wave regimes, using a 6-degrees-of-freedom (d.o.f.) model of the platform coupled with an established model of the AWE system. We find that the frequency of tether force oscillations can be close to the platform resonance peaks, resulting in possible increased fatigue loads and damage of the floating and submerged components. The second contribution is to propose a control design procedure to avoid this problem, acting on the kite path planner. Simulation results confirm the effectiveness of the approach. This study was carried out within the NEST - Network 4 Energy Sustainable Transition (D.D. 1243 02 08 2022, PE00000021) and received funding under the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP), Mission 4 Component 2 Investment 1.3, funded from the European Union - NextGenerationEU. This manuscript reflects only the authors views and opinions, neither the European Union nor the European Commission can be considered responsible for them. Sofia Trombini and Lorenzo Fagiano are with the Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria (DEIB), Politecnico di Milano, Piazza Leonardo da Vinci 32, 20133 Milano, Italy. e-mail addresses: sofia.trombini polimi.it; lorenzo.fagiano polimi.it.Edoardo Pasta is with Marine Offshore Renewable Energy Lab., Dipartimento di Ingegneria Meccanica e Aerospaziale (DIMEAS), Politecnico di Torino, Corso Duca degli Abruzzi 24, 10129 Torino, Italy. e-mail address: edoardo.pasta polito.it This article is currently under review for the European Control Conference 2024.arXiv:2401.05950v1 eess.SY 11 Jan 2024 II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION AND MODEL We consider a pumping Airborne Wind Energy system installed on a moored spar-buoy, see Fig. 1 for a conceptual layout. We consider a soft kite with one tether, similar to those employed by the company Skysails Power 10 , 2 , and a simple geometry of the spar-buoy (i.e., a cylinder) partially filled with heavy sand to act as a ballast. We further assume the presence of four symmetric catenary moorings to anchor the platform to the seabed. four reference frames: Fixed, inertial frame ( x,y,z), with origin OWin the platform centre of gravity at rest,
__label__energy	1 Please cite this article in press as: P.T. Metzger, Space development and space science together, an historic opportunity, Sp ace Policy (2016), http: dx.doi.org 10.1016 j.spacepol.2016.08.004 2016. This manuscript version is made available under a Creative Commons Attribution -NonCommercial - NoDerivatives 4.0 International License , https: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 Space Development and Space Science Together , an Historic Opportunity Philip T. Metzger Florida Space Institute, University of Central Florida, 12354 Research Parkway, Orlando, FL 3282 6, USA philip.metzger ucf.edu Abstract The national space programs have an historic opportunity to help solve the global- scale economic and environmental problems of Earth while becoming more effective at science through the use of space resources . Space programs will be more cost -effective when they work to establish a supply chain in space, mining and manufacturing then replicating the assets of the supply chain so it grows to larger capacity. This has become achievable because of advances in robotics an d artificial intelligence. It is roughly estimated that developing a lunar outpost that relies upon and also develop s the supply chain will cost about 1 3 or less of the existing annual budgets of the national space programs . It will require a sustained commitment of several decades to complete, during which time science and exploration become increasingly effective. At the end, this space industry will capable of address ing global- scale challenges including limited resources, clean energy, economic development, and preservation of the environment. Other potential solutions, including nuclear fusion and terrestrial renewable energy sources , do not address the root problem of our limited globe and there are real questions whether they will be inadequate or too late . While industry in space likewise cannot provide perfect assurance, it is uniquely able to solve the root problem , and it gives us an important chance that we should grasp . What makes this such an historic opportunity is that the spac e-based solution is obtainable as a side -benefit of doing space science and exploration within their existing budgets . Thinking pragmatically, it may take some time for policymakers to agree that setting up a complete supply chain is an achievable goal, so this paper describes a strategy of incremental progress. The most crucial part of this strategy is establishing a water economy by mining on the Moon and asteroids to manufacture rocket propellant. Technologies that support a water economy will play an important role leading toward space development. 1. Introduction Because of recent technological advances it has now become practical and affordable to establish a complete, robotic , industrial supply chain in space, enabling great science while promis ing tremendous benefit s back on Earth 1 . Some of the benefits (mostly in space) occur in the early phase of establishing this industry, while more dramatic benefits occur after it becomes self -sufficient so that no further material need be launched from Earth and it can be scaled -up to great throughput. In this paper the end-state shall be called a Self- sufficient Replicating Space Industry, or SRSI. The main challenge for this Please cite this article in pr ess as: P.T. Metzger, Space development and space science together, an historic opportunity, Space Policy (2016), http: dx.doi.org 10.1016 j.spacepol.2016.08.004 2016. This manuscript version is made available under a Creative Commons Attribution -NonCommercial - NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, https: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 2 concept is neither technology nor cost but simply convincing people it is realistic . In the 1970s Gerard K. O Neill proposed orbiting space colonies, each with 10,000 residents who would manufacture solar power stations to beam clean energy to Earth at a profit. Senator William Proxmire said of the concept, It s the best argument yet for chopping NASA s funding to the bone. As Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee responsible for NASA s appropriations, I say not a pe nny for this nutty fantasy... 2 . Likely, many people will have the same reaction to a program of bootstrapping SRSI . To be pragmatic, we may consider this to be a three -state program as shown in Table 1. Stage 1 is not a formal program but rather the combined activity of the space development community (bot h inside and outside government). It includes activities that (1) contr ibute to space industry, (2) can be justified on their own economic merit and therefore funded by whatever means are available , public or private , and (3) help convince policymakers to embrace SRSI. A strategy for Stage 1 activities is discussed toward the end of this paper . They contribute to space industry by maturing the necessary technologies, by establishing infrastructure in space that lowers the cost of operating in space ( so then Stage 2 can be accomplished for less cost) , by demonstrating to policymakers and the public the many benefits of space industry, and by building conviction among policymakers that the SRSI concept is feasible . The robotics revolution already occurring in terrestrial industry will also help show that SRSI is feasible . Ideally, Stage 2 would begin today. There is no reason to have Stage 1 except for the fact that Stage 2 is not yet funded, so we must take practical steps to help convince policymakers to begin Stage 2. Table 1. Three Stages of Space Industry Stage Economics Leadership Goals Duration 1 Each activity justified on its own merits Amorphous 1. Make incremental progress in technology 2. Lower cost of operating in space 3. Convince policymakers to fund SRSI Until leaders are convinced 2 Focused, Multi -decade investment Coalition of Nations Intentionally bootstrap SRSI 2 to 4 decades 3 Payback of prior investments Coalition of Nations Benefit from SRSI Perpetual A model showing how Stage 2 can be done affordably was presented by Metzger et al .s 1 and will be briefly summarize here. We now know that the Moon and Near Earth Asteroids have all the raw resources necessary for an industrial supply chain
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	arXiv:2202.09320v1 eess.SY 18 Feb 2022Distributed Transient Safety Veriﬁcation via Robust Contr ol Invariant Sets: A Microgrid Application Jean-Baptiste Bouvier1,2, Sai Pushpak Nandanoori1, Melkior Ornik2and Soumya Kundu1 Abstract Modern safety-critical energy infrastructures are increasingly operated in a hierarchical and modular contro l framework which allows for limited data exchange between the modules. In this context, it is important for each module to synthesize and communicate constraints on the values of exchanged information in order to assure system-wide safet y. To ensure transient safety in inverter-based microgrids, we d evelop a set invariance-based distributed safety veriﬁcation alg orithm for each inverter module. Applying Nagumo s invariance con - dition, we construct a robust polynomial optimization prob lem to jointly search for safety-admissible set of control set- points and design parameters, under allowable disturbances from neighbors. We use sum-of-squares (SOS) programming to solv e the veriﬁcation problem and we perform numerical simulatio ns using grid-forming inverters to illustrate the algorithm. I. I NTRODUCTION The massive failure of the Texas electrical grid in February 2021 1 gave global coverage to the issue of power network resilience. During these extreme events, time and resource s are of essence for the grid operator to assess the situation a nd take appropriate actions to maintain the operating state of the power network. Hence, to an extent it is imperative on the grid operator to be prepared for extreme events. Microgrids , both grid-connected and stand-alone, have shown promise to enhance resilience and reliability by paving a way of coordinating multiple distributed energy resources (DERs ) as a locally operated single controllable entity 2 , 3 . How ever, ensuring operational stability, safety, and reliability o f any power network involves a complex multi-timescales problem , spanning sub-seconds to minutes and hours. Traditional power system control operations were largely structured around a temporal decoupling which allows slower-timescal e operations (e.g., optimal dispatch) need not directly take into account faster-timescale constraints, and vice versa . However, with the emergence of inverter-based DERs and the associated changes in power systems dynamics (e.g., reducing inertia), the timescales separation is expected t o continue to shrink 4 . The droop-controlled inverter base d microgrids have a lower inertia than conventional generato rs, which allows large variations of the voltage and frequency 1Jean-Baptiste Bouvier, Sai Pushpak Nandanoori and Soumya K undu are with the Paciﬁc Northwest National Laboratory, Richlan d, WA, USA. saipushpak.n,soumya.kundu pnnl.gov 2Jean-Baptiste Bouvier and Melkior Ornik are with the Depart - ment of Aerospace Engineering and the Coordinated Science L abora- tory at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urban a, IL, USA. bouvier3, mornik illinois.eduof each inverters 3 , 5 . The ﬂuctuations happen during the transient evolution occurring as a result of a fault or due to the transitions between the power set-points, and can lead to violation of safety constraints 6 . It is imperativ e to develop a mechanism to inform slower-timescale operations (e.g., optimal dispatch of power set-points) of the constra ints arising from faster-timescale (transient) dynamics. Many recent efforts have addressed this need via, for example, stability and security-constrained optimizatio n 3 , 5 , 7 , identiﬁcation of local and distributed parametri c stability conditions 6 , 8 , 9 , etc. The distributed id en- tiﬁcation of stability conditions are particularly intere sting since these ﬁt well into a multi-ownership models of mi- crogrid resources, and facilitate hierarchical and plug-a nd- play operations 10 . However, most of the related literatu re, as above, only focus on the stability which concerns with the convergence of power system trajectories (close) to its normal operating point after a disturbance. The concept of safety, on the other hand, relates to avoiding critical oper a- tional limits (e.g., on voltages and frequencies), even und er large disturbances. Safety is closely tied to resilience, s ince often in cyber-physical adversarial scenarios, an immedia te priority is to contain the system trajectories within some acceptable set, rather than ensuring return to normality. Safety-constrained control techniques are gaining recent attention in the power systems community 11 14 . Model- predictive control 15 remains one of the most commonly used methods for enforcing dynamic constraints over some prediction horizon. However, it suffers from certain limit a- tions in the context of power system dynamics, related to, for example, nonlinearity and associated complexity of the dynamics, information disparity due to communication over - heads and or privacy concerns, and computational burden, especially for longer prediction horizon 13 . To circumve nt these issues, distributed safety veriﬁcation and control m eth- ods based on robust forward set-invariance principles have been proposed in 11 14 . However, these prior works rely on the existence or the construction of parametric Lyapunov functions and or barrier functions, thereby often incurri ng prohibitive computational costs and resulting in conserva tive safety certiﬁcates. The work in 11 , for example, proposes a sum-of-squares (SOS) programming based computation al- gorithm for distributed safety certiﬁcates as a super-leve l set of barrier functions. However, such computational methods result in conservative estimates of the safety-guaranteed set (e.g., Fig. 1 in 11 ), and typically do not scale well. In this work, we consider a hierarchical and modular microgrid control architecture, 10 , 14 , 16 , which al - lows system-level dispatch of power set-points to inverter - based resources, accommodating only limited data exchange between the (neighboring) inverter modules. Our objective is to design bounds on dispatched control set-points at the inverter buses, that guarantee, in a distributed sense, the safe excursions of local voltage and frequency within the speciﬁ ed limits while tolerating uncertainty in the neighboring bus es. Speciﬁcally, the work presented in this paper relies on the Nagumo s theorem 17 , 18 to build an efﬁcient method for distributed and robust safety veriﬁcation, without requir ing existence or construction of barrier functions. Thus, the proposed approach requires less computation, and relaxes the conservativeness of the barrier-certiﬁed safe sets by directly accommodating the original safety speciﬁcations .
__label__energy	1 Augmented Synchronization of Power Systems Peng Yang, Feng Liu, Senior Member, IEEE, Tao Liu, Member, IEEE, David J. Hill, Life Fellow, IEEE Abstract Power system transient stability has been trans- lated into a Lyapunov stability problem of the post-disturbance equilibrium for decades. Despite substantial results, conventional theories suffer from the stringent requirement of knowing the post-disturbance equilibrium a priori. In contrast, the wisdom from practice, which certiﬁcates stability by only the observa- tion of converging frequencies and voltages, seems to provide an equilibrium-independent approach. Here, we formulate the empirical wisdom by the concept of augmented synchronization and aim to bridge such a theory-practice gap. First, we derive conditions under which the convergence to augmented synchro- nization implies the convergence to the equilibrium set, laying the ﬁrst theoretical foundation for the empirical wisdom. Then, we reveal from what initial values the power system can achieve augmented synchronization. Our results open the possibility of an equilibrium-independent power system stability analytic that re- deﬁnes the nominal motion as augmented synchronization rather than certain equilibrium. Single-machine examples and the IEEE 9-bus system well verify our results and illustrate promising implications. Index Terms Power system transient stability; augmented synchronization; AS-detectability; region of attraction. I. I NTRODUCTION TRANSIENT stability underlies functional operations of modern power grids, which usually span thousands of kilometers in open land and always suffer from various types of disturbances. It refers to the ability of a power system, for a given initial operating condition, to regain a (new) state of operating equilibrium after being subjected to a large disturbance such as short-circuit faults and sudden large load changes 1 . Although this descriptive deﬁnition covers the essence of transient stability, its interpretation diverges for theorists and engineering practitioners. Theoretically, transient stability has been translated into the equilibrium stability problem in the sense of Lyapunov for decades 2 . Under this framework, a set of ordinary dif- ferential equations (ODEs) or differential algebraic equations (DAEs) are used to describe the post-disturbance dynamics of a power system 1 . Theorists are interested in whether a post- disturbance equilibrium is Lyapunov asymptotically stable, and if so, what is the region of attraction (RoA), i.e., from which initial point the system solution can converge to this equilibrium. This idea has led to the so-called direct methods that are based on Lyapunov functions or energy functions 3 6 , and can directly assess transient stability without time-consuming simulations. Despite substantial results, such theories have been criticized for the stringent requirement on prior knowledge of the post-disturbance equilibrium. Such a requirement is unrealistic especially when the post-disturbance equilibrium depends on initial points. In some cases, system trajectories may converge to an equilibrium set, but none ofthe equilibria is asymptotically stable, and hence conventional direct methods fail. Indeed, taking a single stable equilibrium as the subject greatly restricts the capability of conventional transient stability theories. A rudimentary example will be shown in Section V, where these challenging issues can arise simply from interactions among subsystems. Fortunately, power system engineering practitioners have already found an intuitive and effective way to circumvent the aforementioned dilemma. Instead of an equilibrium-dependent stability concept, they often interpret and assess transient stability differently. After a large disturbance, if all frequencies synchronize to around the nominal value (50 or 60 Hz), and all voltages converge to steady-state values within a certain safety region, then the power system will be regarded to successfully regain an operating point, and hence is transiently stable. This practical criterion demands no information of the post-disturbance equilibrium but only the observation of converging frequencies and voltages. This feature is appealing in practice as it is impossible to monitor all state variables while the measurement of frequencies and voltages are often easy to obtain 7 . Although this empirical wisdom works well, one intriguing and important question remains: does the convergence of only frequencies and voltages guarantee the convergence of all states? After all, it is the latter, not the former, that the transient stability actually concerns. A mismatch between demand and supply of theories exists as well. Although equilibrium-independent transient stability analytics has been advocated in the power system community for decades, which, to the best of our knowl- edge, dates back to the pioneering work by J. L. Willems in 1974 8 , the progress seems stagnant. Despite several mathematical concepts beyond Lyapunov stability have been proposed, e.g., partial stability 9 , set stabilization 10 and contraction analysis 11 , they rarely ﬁnd proper applications in power systems (studies handling phase rotational symmetry are among few exceptions 8 , 12 , 13 ). A more favorable concept is synchronization , which has been drawing increasing attention recently 13 19 . It focuses on the synchronized state in stability analysis, instead of a given equilibrium. However, most existing works on this topic concern only synchrony among generators and are built on network-reduced ODEs models that assume constant voltages 15 18 . Such models cannot capture the dynamical behavior of voltages, and fall short to capture heterogeneous devices in modern power grids. A more compatible and equilibrium-independent theory is still in need. A clear gap between theory and practice stands before us. On the one hand, practical experience indicates that we can assess transient stability in an equilibrium-independent fashion but without knowing why. On the other hand, the equilibrium-arXiv:2106.13166v2 eess.SY 18 Sep 2021 2 dependent Lyapunov stability theory often encounters limita- tions in practice. Here, we aim to bridge this theory-practice gap by introducing the concept of augmented synchronization , which means all frequencies synchronize and all voltages converge to steady states. Inspired by the practice wisdom, we re-deﬁne the nominal motion of power systems as an augmented synchronous state instead of an equilibrium. And we re-interpret power system transient stability as convergence to augmented synchronization after a disturbance rather than to any speciﬁed post-disturbance equilibrium. Our interpretation conforms to the physical deﬁnition of power system tran- sient stability and more importantly, will allow equilibrium- independent analytics. To this end, we aim
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	COMBINED HYDROTHERMAL LIQUEFACTION OF POLYURETHANE AND LIGNOCELLULOSIC BIOMASS FOR IMPROVED CARBON RECOVERY Juliano Souza dos Passos a,b, Stefano Chiaberge c, Patrick Biller a,b a Department of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Aarhus University, Hangøvej 2, DK -8200 Aarhus N, Denmark b Aarhus University Centre for Circular Bioeconomy, DK -8830 Tjele, Denmark c Eni s.p.a. Renewable Energy Environmental R D, via Fauser 4, 28100, Novara, Italy. Corresponding author Key words: Hydrothermal liquefaction; chemical recycling; circular economy; polymers; polyurethane Abstract. Due to the high versatility of Polyurethane (PUR) , its share amongst synthetic polymers to manufacture consumer goods is increasing . This study proposes, tests and validates through pilot processing a highly efficient method for carbon recovery of PUR and in the form of an oil phase concentrated in carbon using hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL). Hot liquid water mixed with PUR residues and a lignocellulosic material (two species of Miscanthus) were treated at subcritical water temperatures, generating an oil -phase rich in hydrocarbons. A high synergistic eff ect in the co -liquefaction was observed, leading to a carbon and chemical energy recovery to the oil of 71 and 75 respectively. Pilot plant processing , using optimized process parameters , yielded a total process efficiency , accounting heating utilities , of 61 , resulting in a 3.2 ratio of energy return over investment. Using spectroscopic and high-resolution mass spectrometry analysis the oil revealed a high content of nitrogen hetero aromatic and polyol compounds . The high synergy observed for the co -liquefaction of PUR and miscanthus is attributed to recombination of synthetic and biological materials, specifically due to aromatics present in the media and nitrogen -containing compounds recombination . The results show that HTL can be an efficient method for carbon recovery of PUR aided by biomass. 1. INTRODUCTION Polyurethanes (PUR) are a group of extremely versatile synthetic polymers. Their applications range from automobile seats, chairs, sofas, footwear and carpets to r efrigerators, insulation boards, medical applications , coatings, binders and many others .1 Such a variety of applications and continuous innovations have resulted in a PUR yearly produc tion of around 26.4 Mton worldwide , with a production growth rate of 6.25 per year 2013 -2018 .1,2 PUR is usually divided into flexible and rigid foam s, coatings, adhesives, sealant s and elastomers .1,3 The main difference between these groups are the polyols composition and ratios of isocyanides and polyols used in production. PUR manufacturing plants are known to be wasteful, generating a considerable amount of trims and scrap , reaching 10 of the total PUR production .2,3 Despite the fact that part of the waste material produced has recycling opportunities that yield secondary products (carpets, inferior quality insulation boards) , the amount diverted to such application s does not alleviate waste handling , particularly for post -consumer products2, and hence, innovation is still needed for PUR recycling. The variety of PUR application s also brings challenges upon general recycling methods that can cope with all kinds of inputs. The most common recycling methods are mechanical ( regrinding, rebinding, adhesive pressing, injection moulding and compression moulding), mainly yielding lower quality products than the initial feedstock source . These processes can cope with mixed flexible PUR, though the preference is usually for pure inputs . Nevertheless, m echanical recycling cannot handle rigid PUR . All of the mechanical recycli ng methods , besides adhesive pressing, have limitations regarding recycled feedstock, as it tends to decrease product quality.2,3 Chemical recycling methods for PUR are know n and can be divided into pyrolysis, gasification, hydrogenation and solvolysis (hydrolysis, aminolysis, glycolysis). Pyrolysis typically produces a considerable amount of HCN, NO, CO in the gas phase2, together with volatiles that include methane, ethylene, benzene and others .4 The process usually yields (at 450 C) 5 25 wt char, 10 45 wt liquids and 40 wt gases. Due to the undesired products present in the gas phase, pyrolysis is not preferred when dealing with PUR. A recent catalytic gasification report shows that hydrogen rich gases (up to 80 hydrogen fraction) are achievable, with gas yields around 70 at 1100 C.5 Gasification also entails the issue of generating pollutants, such as NO, HCN, and other nitrogen containing gases. Hydrogenation on the other hand, as it is conducted in a reductive media, tends to produce NH 3 from the feedstock nitrogen. This process generates comparable amounts of volatiles as pyrolysis, with greater energy content due to the hydrogen saturation towards hydrocarbons .2,6 The most used and developed solvolysis method for PUR recycling is glycolysis with existing examples of pilot plants and industrial scale facilities .3 As the glycol reactant attaches to urethane bonds via transesterification reaction s, the polyols from the feedstock are released and become available for further use.3 Several catalysts have been tested for this approach , however a mines are typically employed , though their presence in products is undesired.2 Many research groups and patents have described PUR glycolysis employing different glycols as reactants for different PURs and a range of catalysts , generally with high recovery of polyols, sometimes with two phase separation.2,3,7 Despite this method being the most developed, with pilot and industrial s cale plants around the world, the complexity of the products obtained restrict their use to rigid foam manufacturing at limited contribution to virgin feedstock.3 Hydrolysis of PUR is usually described employing dry superheated steam at mild temperatures and low pressure s (190-250 C, 10 -20 bar) for relatively long residence times ( 30 min) .3 Products obtained are complex and difficult to separate, hindering process development so far to laboratory and pilot scale. We have describ ed before that hydrothermal liquefaction ( HTL ) using 350 C liquid water successfully depolymerizes PUR, generating an oil rich in polyols and amines free from urethane bonds.8 HTL is a comparable process to hydrolysis , however, HTL has the advantage of not using steam as a water source i.e. avoiding evaporation energy spent on steam generation , and recovering products in a separated oil phase. Typically,
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	A preprint article submit to Elsevier Energy and AI VOLUME XX, 2017 1 A Review : Challenges and Opportunities for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics in the Offshore Wind Sector Daniel Mitchell1, Jamie Blanche1, Sam Harper1, Theodore Lim1, Ranjeet kumar Gupta1, Osama Zaki1, Wen shuo Tang1, Valentin Robu1,2,3, Simon Watson4 and David Flynn1 1Smart Systems Group, Institute of Sensors, Signals and Systems, School of Engineering and Physical Sciences, Heriot -Watt University, Edinburgh, EH14 4AS, U.K. 2Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science, Intelligent and Autonomous Systems Gr oup, CWI, 1098 XG Amsterdam, The Netherlands . 3Algorithms Group, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Computer Science (EEMCS), Delft University of Technology (TU Delft), 2628 XE Delft, The Netherlands. 4The University of Manchester, Departme nt of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Oxford Road, Manchester , M13 9PL . Corresponding author: Daniel Mitchell (e-mail: dm68 hw.ac.uk ). This work was supported in part by the Offshore Robotic s for Certification of Assets (ORCA) Hub under EPSRC Project EP R026173 1 and EPSRC Holistic Operation and Maintenance for Energy (HOME) for offshore wind farms. ABSTRACT A global trend in increasing wind turbine size and distances from shore is emerging w ithin the rapidly growing offshore wind farm market. In the UK, the offshore wind sector produced its highest amount of electricity in the UK in 2019, a 19.6 increa se on the year before. Currently, the UK is set to increase production further, targeting a 74.7 increase of installed turbine capacity as reflected in recent Crown Estate leasing rounds. With such tremendous growth, the sector is now looking to Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (RAI) in order to tackle lifecycle service barriers as to suppo rt sustainable and profitable offshore wind energy production. Today, RAI applications are predominately being used to support short term objectives in operation and maintenance. However, moving forward, RAI has the potential to play a critical role throug hout the full lifecycle of offshore wind infrastructure, from surveying, planning, design, logistics, operational support, training and decommissioni ng. This paper presents one of the first systematic reviews of RAI for the offshore renewable energy sector . The state -of-the-art in RAI is analyzed with respect to offshore energy requirements, from both industry and academia, in terms of current and future requirements. Our review also includes a detailed evaluation of investment, regulation and skills develo pment required to support the adoption of RAI. The key trends identified through a detailed analysis of patent and academic publication databas es provide insights to barriers such as certification of autonomous platforms for safety compliance and reliabili ty, the need for digital architectures for scalability in autonomous fleets, adaptive mission planning for resilient resident operations and optimization of human machine interaction for trusted partnerships between people and autonomous assistants. Our st udy concludes wit h identification of technological priorities and outline s their integration into a new symbiotic digital architecture to deliver the future of offshore wind farm lifecycle management. INDEX TERMS Artificial intelligence, Autonomous systems, Digitalization, Offshore renewable energy, Offshore wind farms , Robotics . 1 INTRODUCTION The United Nations Conference of the Parties 26 (COP26) aim is to secure global net zero by mid -century and keep 1.5 degrees within reach. In reaching these targets , countries will need to do the following: accelerate phasing out of coal ; curtail deforestation; accelerate a switch to electric vehicles and enco urage investments in renewables. Energy Sector activities are clearly associated been clearly identified as the main cause of global climate change and underpin the current climate change A preprint article submit to Elsevier Energy and AI 2 emergency, as acknowledged by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climat e Change (UN) 1 , 2 . Greenhouse gases, specifically Carbon Dioxide (CO 2), are produced during the burning of fossil fuels, which curr ently represent two thirds of global greenhouse emissions 1 , 3 . To meet the global obligation to mitigate the consequences of climate change, there has been significant investment into renewable energy generation 4 . The maturity of offshore wind technologies , combined with global political suppor t for its expansion as part of international governments COVID recovery stimulus , has resulted in this market experiencing unprecedent global growth 5 . The UK represents a world leading energy economy driving the trend of strategic investment into offshore wind 6 , where UK renewable electricity capacity reached 47.4GW at the end of 2019, a 3GW, or 6.9 , increase on the previous year. Offshore wind farms also generated 31.9TWh of electricity , which represented a 19.6 increase in comparison to the previous year. The total energy output of the UK in 2019 for onshore and offshore wind energy production accounted for 9.9 , however in Q1 2021 , this has increased to 25.6 , demonstrating a shift in energy provenance with a clear trend in favor of wind power 7 9 . Addition ally, in 2020, the UK produced approximately 6.8GW via operational offshore wind farms , with the future energy generation growth trajectory including pre -plann ed and, consented projects under construction, expected to reach 27.2GW; an increase of 74.7 of in stalled turbine capacity. This is attributable to the launch of the fourth round of Crown Estate offshore wind leasing , with a potential of 7GW of new seabed rights offshore of England and Wales to power 6 million homes 10 . Crown Estate Scotland also approved their first round of offshore wind leasing , with the potential to generate in excess of the energy requirements for every Scottish home , offset ting 6 million tonnes of CO 2 each year and allow ing for the investment of around 8 billion in the Scottish offshore wind sec tor 6 . On a continental level , the 2050 European Commission agenda estimates that between 250 -450GW of offshore wind power will be required to limit global warming to within 1.5 C of pre -industrial levels and estimates that up to 30 in future global electricity demand could be supplied
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Optimal Storage for Solar Energy Self-Su ciency Anders E. Carlsson1and S. Redner2 1Department of Physics, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri 2Santa Fe Institute, 1399 Hyde Park Road, Santa Fe, New Mexico, 87501 We determine the energy storage needed to achieve self su ciency to a given reliability as a function of excess capacity in a combined solar-energy generation and storage system. Based on 40 years of solar-energy data for the St. Louis region, we formulate a statistical model that we use to generate synthetic insolation data over millions of years. We use these data to monitor the energy depletion in the storage system near the winter solstice. From this information, we develop explicit formulas for the required storage and the nature of cost-optimized system con gurations as a function of reliability and the excess of generation capacity. Minimizing the cost of the combined generation and storage system gives the optimal mix of these two constituents. For an annual failure rate of less than 3 , it is su cient to have a solar generation capacity that slightly exceeds the daily electrical load at the winter solstice, together with a few days of storage. Moving away from fossil fuels to renewable energy is a crucial step to minimize the extent of global warm- ing. Because renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar, are intermittent, achieving a 100 renewable sce- nario requires either a large excess generation capacity, a substantial amount of storage, or a judicious mixture of the two. Understanding the nature of is tradeo between excess capacity and storage is crucial for the design and optimization of e ective renewable energy systems. Un- derstanding the factors that determine the tradeo will improve our grasp of the right balance between the un- certain costs of generation and storage in the future. This tradeo is characterized by two fundamental pa- rameters: the generation factor g , the ratio of the aver- age annual generation capacity to the annual load, and the storage capacity S, the number of days of electrical load that reside in a storage system. Various simulation studies have given scattered values for the optimal mix ofgandSvalues, with little understanding of how they depend on physical parameters. Ref. 1 examined com- bined energy generation and storage systems in the US and in speci c subregions, with both wind and solar gen- eration. For solar-only generation, a system with g 2:1 and a storage equivalent Sof 4 days of load was virtually 100 reliable, de ned as the fraction of total energy de- mand that was met by renewables plus storage. However, equally high reliability was obtained with g 1:3 and a month of storage. Ref. 2 focused on the case g 1, with a mix of solar and wind energy and found that a storage Sof 1.1 2.5 months was required. Ref. 3 developed optimized energy systems for the continental US over a range of storage costs, using the same underlying model as in Ref. 1 . For inexpensive storage, they found g 2:2, while more expensive storage required an increase in the capacity to g 2:7. Concomi- tantly, the amount of storage dropped from about 5 days of load to 1 day. Ref. 4 determined optimal solutions for a power network in the eastern US with disparate storage modalities. The requisite gvalues were in the range of 2.5 2.9 and Sbetween 0.3 3 days, depending on the type of storage. Related studies 5 8 added eas- ily dispatchable renewable sources, such as hydroelectricpower, which reduced the required storage. Given the range of the these predictions about opti- mal con gurations, a need exists for an analytical theory that would: (a) clarify the relation between input physi- cal parameters and the performance of a combined gener- ation storage system, and (b) help constrain the param- eters of this system to guide the realm of feasibility. In this work, we construct such a theory that is based on an idealized, but general model that faithfully incorporates the actual solar irradiation statistics, including season- ality and day-to-day correlations. This theory allows us to specify the nature of an optimal generation storage system and make explicit predictions about its cost and reliability. Although optimal systems will in general in- clude both wind and solar energy, we treat only solar energy in order to obtain a theoretically tractable model. We believe that the general features of our results will hold for mixed systems as well. Our model extends previous analytical theories based on simpli ed solar irradiation statistics. Ref. 9 as- sumed a deterministic day-night pro le, while ignoring daily and seasonal uctuations. Refs. 10 12 included daily, but not seasonal weather variations, and day-to- day correlations in some cases. They found that the fail- ure probability decays exponentially with increasing stor- age capacity, and Ref. 12 gave explicit formulas for the storage capacity required to achieve a given reliability. Ref. 13 included the e ects of seasonality in generation and or load but did not treat random weather uctua- tions. Ref. 14 used an empirical t to reliability simu- lations based on historical weather data (including sea- sonality), and found an exponential relationship between generation and storage. However, a principled theory that quantitatively treats the combination of stochastic daily weather uctuations, day-to-day correlations, and seasonality does not yet seem to exist. We begin by rst outlining basic features of the solar- ux data for the St. Louis region, which typi es those of the entire US. We then introduce our data-driven model and use it to develop analytic formulas for the failure rate and storage capacity needed to achieve a given re- liability. We use these to calculate the generation andarXiv:2209.00167v1 physics.soc-ph 1 Sep 2022 2 storage capacities of a combined system that minimizes the cost and yet is extremely reliable. We verify our predictions based on simulations of millions of years of synthetic data. I. EMPIRICAL BACKGROUND A. Solar Flux Data To illustrate the issues and as a preliminary to develop
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	1 Earth quake and Geothermal Energy Surya Prakash Kapoor 60, Gagan Vihar Extension , Delhi -110051 INDIA . and Bhag Chand Chauhan Department of Physics Astronomical Science , School of Physical Material Sciences, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, Dharamshala, Kangra -176215 INDIA. Abstract The origin of earthquake has long been recognized as resulting from st rike-slip instability of plate tectonic s along the fault lines. Several events of earthquake around the globe have happened which cannot be explained by th is theory. In this work we investigat ed the earthquake data along with other observ ed facts like heat flow profiles etc of the Indian subcontinent. In our studies we found a high -quality correlation between the earthquake events, s eismic prone zones, heat flow regions and the geothermal hot spring s. As a consequence , we propose d a hypothesis which can adequately explain all the earthquake events a round the globe a s well as the overall geo -dynamics . It is basically the geothermal pow er, which makes the plates to stand still , strike and slip over . The plate s are merely a working solid while the driving force is the geothermal energy. The violent flow and enormous pressure of this power shake the earth along the plate boundaries and also trigger s the intra-plate seismicity . In the light of the results reported by the California Energy Commission from the ongoing geothermal power project at the Big Geysers in California , we further propounded that by harness ing the surplus geothermal energy the intensity and risk of the impending earthquake s can be substantially reduced. spkapoor yahoo.com chauhan iucaa.ernet.in 2 1. INTRODUCTION Unlike other planets of the solar system earth is a highly dynamic. Some activity is relentlessly going on in the interior of it. Traversing a journey of hundred s of million years since its birth the earth has been going through a continuous geological change. As a result the contine nts on the surface had different shapes and were located in different positions from those we find them today 1 . The heat source inside the earth exerts pressure towards the surface where it leads to geo-dynamism and geothermal events like spectacular volcanoes, high heat flow regions etc The current understating of earthquakes is mainly based on the deformation of the plate tectonics along the fault lines. This is known as the theory of the Plate Tectonics. The rigid plates on the crust and lithospher e are moving slowly and continuously. Although most of the earthquakes have been found to occur along these fault lines associated with plate boundaries, yet there are certain event s like mid -plate seismicity , peaceful (seamless) fault-lines and deep hypocenter etc which are not adequately explained by th is theory . After a detailed investigation of the earthquake events and heat flow data etc , mainly of the Indian s ubcontinent, in this paper we propose a hypothesis for the cause of earthquake which can successfully explain all of the above mentioned events and as well as the complete earthquake dynamics. According to this at the root it is the excess pressure of the geothermal power which sponsors the geo-dynamism, plate movement s, and thereby earthquakes along the fault-line and thermally porous and brittle zone of the earth. In the light of observed figures and facts w e further argue that the plate movement and other seismic activity can be impede d by harnessing the surplus press ure amount of geothermal power as electricity etc , at least in the hot springs pockets. A s a result this intensity of the prospective earthquake can substantially be reduced. In the paper we have given a number of valid points and facts which associate the earthquake events more likely with the geothermal activity rather than just the plate movements . The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 details the phenomenon of ea rthquake and the present understanding of its causes and predictions. In S ection 3 we propose our hypothesis with its supporting arguments and observed facts by studying the relevant data of Indian subcontinent. However in Section 4 we discuss the potential benefits of harnessing the geothermal energy . The discussion and conclusions are summarized in S ection 5. 3 2. EARTHQUAKE AND ITS CURRENT UNDERSTANDING During the years 1912 -15 a German meteorologist and geophysicist Alfred Wegener proposed that about 200 million years ago the earth existed as a supercontinent called Pangaea . Then it began breaking into smaller continents, which then drifted to their present position s. This drift was popularly known as Continental Drift . This id ea was supported by evidences, like Fit to Continents, Fossil Evidence, Rock Type and Structural Similarities and Paleoclimatic Evidence etc... By 1968 the concept of continental drift united with another idea of Seafloor Spreading emerged as a more enco mpassing theory of Plate Tectonics 1 . The the ory holds that the outer rigid l ithosphere of earth is a spherical layer of about six major individual segments called Plates . These plates are Euro -Asiatic, African, Antarctic, Indo -Australian, American a nd Pacific, and several minor plates are positioned between them. The plates merged, not seamlessly, and the resulting lines across are known as Faults . The earthquakes are caused by the friction on the boundaries of the plates moving together. This is considered to be the main reason that most of the earthquakes have been found to occur along these faults associated with plate boundaries. In the earthquake the vibration of earth is produced by a rapid release of energy. The energy is released as spheri cal wave fronts in all the direction starting from the source, the focus 1 . The source lies deep down inside the earth is called as hypocenter; however the correspondi ng point on the surface is known as epicenter . The waves so generated from the source are known as the seismic waves and the st udy of
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	Data-Driven Domestic Flexible Demand: Observations from experiments in cold climate Dirk Reinhardt, Wenqi Cai, and Sebastien Gros Abstract Inthischapter,wereportonourexperiencewithdomesticflexibleelectric energy demand based on a regular commercial (HVAC)-based heating system in a house. Our focus is on investigating the predictability of the energy demand of the heatingsystemandofthethermalresponsewhenvaryingtheheatingsystemsettings. Being able to form such predictions is crucial for most flexible demand algorithms. We will compare several methods for predicting the thermal and energy response, which either gave good results or which are currently promoted in the literature for controlling buildings. We will report that the stochasticity of a house response is inourexperience themaindifficultyinprovidingdomesticflexibledemandfrom heating. The experiments were carried out on a regular house in Norway, equipped withfourair-to-airMitsubishiheatpumpsandahigh-efficiencybalancedventilation system.ThehousewasequippedwithmultipleIoT-basedclimatesensors,real-time power measurement, and the possibility to drive the HVAC system via the IoT. The house is operating on the spot market (Nord Pool NO3) and is exposed to a peak energy demand penalty. Over a period of three years, we have collected data on the house (temperatures, humidity, air quality), real-time power and hourly energy consumption, while applying various flexible demand algorithms responding to the local energy costs. This has produced large variations in the settings of the heating systemandenergydemand,resultinginrichdataforinvestigatingthehouseresponse. Thischapteraimsatprovidingimportantinsightsonprovidingflexibledemandfrom houses in cold climates. Dirk Reinhardt DepartmentofEngineeringCybernetics,NorwegianUniversityofScienceandTechnology,Trond- heim, Norway, e-mail: dirk.p.reinhardt ntnu.no Wenqi Cai DepartmentofEngineeringCybernetics,NorwegianUniversityofScienceandTechnology,Trond- heim, Norway, e-mail: wenqi.cai ntnu.no Sebastien Gros DepartmentofEngineeringCybernetics,NorwegianUniversityofScienceandTechnology,Trond- heim, Norway, e-mail: sebastien.gros ntnu.no 1arXiv:2407.16475v1 eess.SY 23 Jul 2024 2 Dirk Reinhardt, Wenqi Cai, and Sebastien Gros 1 Introduction In recent years, with the increased digitalization of the power system and the em- phasis on sustainable energy, the role of domestic energy management has come to theforefront.Atthecoreofthisfocusistheeffectiveutilizationandmanagementof heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems within domestic demand response programs. Optimal HVAC management is critical for an economically ef- fective domestic use of energy, especially in cold climates where heating systems account for a significant portion of the total energy consumption. For instance, in 2017 in Norway it was estimated that water and indoor-space heating accounts for 78 of the total energy consumption of an average household 7 . The research community has investigated optimal HVAC management in large-scale buildings and commercial spaces, but the same effort has not been invested yet in average households.However,withtherapidadoptionofheatpumps(air-to-air,air-to-water, ground-to-water,geothermal)andtheproliferationofaffordableandubiquitousinter- netofthings(IoT)devices,thepotentialforsmartHVACmanagementinhouseholds has grown significantly. Fig. 1:Experimental house, Jan. 2022, at latitude 63 25 50 N. Weconsidertheproblemofdomesticdemandresponseinthecontextofatypical Norwegian household to be particularly interesting. Norway has a cold climate, and the average household relies heavily on electric heating because heating using Data-Driven Domestic Flexible Demand 3 fossil fuels (oil or gas) is prohibited, and electric heating is in general cheaper than the competing resources (wood, pellet, biofuel). In addition, the Norwegian power system is nearly entirely hydroelectric, such that about 98 of the domestic electricity demand is covered by renewable energy. Norway has created in 2001 the Nord Pool system 22 , which manages the power and energy trading in a large part of Europe. Norway and the neighbouring Scandinavian countries give access to private citizens to their local hourly day- ahead spot prices for electric energy, allowing them to buy electricity at its real cost, and to understand the intrinsically volatile value of electric energy. It then becomes interesting for households to manage their energy demand according to the spot prices, by shifting it towards the lower spot prices. We will discuss the Norwegian power system and the opportunities it offers to domestic consumers in more detail in Section 2.1. Because all Norwegian households are equipped by law with connected smart meter that can provide real-time measurements of the power consumption and hourly energy consumption data, it becomes fairly simple for householdstomonitortheirdemand.Inlightofthesedevelopments,theNorwegian population has become increasingly conscious of its domestic energy consumption and the related economics, and the interest in exploiting domestic flexible demand has grown significantly. We expect this development to be a precursor of the future situation in the rest of Europe. The day-ahead spot prices incentivize the households to plan their energy con- sumption based on the future prices. Various predictive control approaches and predictive models have been proposed to forecast the thermal response of buildings andoptimizeenergyconsumption.Thisincludesfirst-principlemodelsbasedonthe energybalanceequations,data-drivenmodelsbasedonmachinelearning,statistical methods,andhybridmodelsthatcombinethetwoapproaches 1,2 .However,these modelsareofteneitherdifficulttoparameterize,oversimplifythecomplexitiesofthe houses thermal dynamics or are difficult to use for predictive control. Furthermore, the stochasticity of the energy response of houses poses significant challenges. In this context, we argue in this chapter that linear data-driven models based on input- outputdynamicsandconvexregressiontechniquesarebestsuitedforimplementing domestic flexible demand at large scales. 1.1 Contribution and Outline In this chapter, we present an experimental study based on collected data from a typical Norwegian household depicted in Fig. 1. We first motivate the need for do- mestic demand response and discuss the market opportunities in Section 2.1. We thenpresenttheexperimentalsetupanddatacollectionprocess,anddiscussthechal- lengesassociatedwithdomesticdemandresponseinSection3.Afterintroducingthe predictive modeling techniques used for our experiments in Section 4, we present their predictive performance in the cold season of 2021-2022 in Section 6. Our observationscontributetowardsestablishingmoreefficientdemandresponsestrate- 4 Dirk Reinhardt, Wenqi Cai, and Sebastien Gros giesincoldclimates,underscoringthepotentialofinformedHVACmanagementin households. 2 The role of flexible demand response in an integrated energy system EnergySystemIntegration(ESI)isaconceptthathasgainedsignificantattentionin the context of lowering the carbon footprint of society at large scales 24 . It refers to the integration of Multi-Energy Systems (MES), such as electricity, heat, and transport, to achieve a more efficient and sustainable energy system 17 . The inte- grationofthesesystemsisexpectedtoplayacrucialroleinthetransitiontoamore sustainable energy system, as it can help to reduce the overall energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. One of the key components of ESI is the integration of demand response, which refers to the ability of consumers to adjust their energy consumption in response to changes in energy prices or other signals. Considering that ESI requires adaptation to the local environment and conditions 24 , which may differ in economic, social, and environmental aspects, it is essential to under- stand the situation in different regions. In this chapter, we focus on the situation in Norway, where the power system is nearly entirely hydroelectric, and the average household relies heavily on electric heating. We will discuss the opportunities and challengesofdomesticdemandresponseinthiscontext,beforewedelveintoamore specificdiscussionwithfocusonintegratingthermalstorageandflexibledemandof aggregated domestic consumers in the power system in the framework of ESI. 2.1 Domestic Consumption as a Resource
__label__energy	arXiv:2209.02009v3 cs.LG 19 May 2023Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template Online Decision Making for Trading Wind Energy Miguel Angel Mu noz1, Pierre Pinson2,3 and Jalal Kazempour4 1 OASYS Group, University of Malaga, Malaga, Spain. 2Dyson School of Design Engineering, Imperial College Londo n, London, United Kingdom. 3Department of Technology, Management and Economics, Technical University of Denmark, Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. 4Department of Wind and Energy Systems, Technical Universit y of Denmark, Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): p.pinson imperial.ac.uk ; Contributing authors: miguelangeljmd uma.es ;jalal dtu.dk ; Abstract We propose and develop a new algorithm for trading wind energ y in elec- tricity markets, within anonline learningandoptimizatio n framework. In particular, wecombine acomponent-wise adaptivevarianto fthegradient descent algorithm with recent advances in the feature-driv en newsvendor model. This results in an online oﬀering approach capable of leveraging data-rich environments, while adapting to the nonstationa ry character- istics of energy generation and electricity markets, also w ith a minimal computational burden. The performance of our approach is an alyzed based on several numerical experiments, showing both bette r adaptabil- itytononstationaryuncertainparametersandsigniﬁcante conomic gains. Keywords: Decision making under uncertainty, Online learning, Elect ricity market, Newsvendor model 1 Springer Nature 2021 L ATEX template 2Online Decision Making for Trading Wind Energy 1 Introduction 1.1 Problem statement Traditionally, the way in which trading wind energy has been considere d relied on a two-step approach. These start with the predictive modeling o f future energy generation (within either deterministic or probabilistic frame works). Such forecastsaresubsequently used as input to expected utility maximization strategies or, alternatively, some more general forms of optimiza tion prob- lems, e.g., within a stochastic framework and accommodating risk ave rsion. Although fruitful, these methodologies may be computationally expe nsive. As a representative recent example, for a scenario-based stochas tic optimization setup to oﬀer in electricity markets, Kraft et al (2023) mentions that compu- tational costs may reach 3 hours for a single trading instance. In a ddition, the value of the ﬁnal decisions is highly aﬀected by the quality of the fore casts employed. This fact was looked at for the general case of newsven dor prob- lems (which are the type of stochastic opimization problems at hand h ere) by Maggioni et al (2019), while a detailed investigation of the impact of forecast quality on optimization in electricity markets (though, not exactly fo r mar- ket participation problems), was detailed in Ordoudis and Pinson (2016). As a consequence, it may be beneﬁcial to integrate the forecasting a nd decision- making steps, within a so-called prescriptive analytics framework ( Bertsimas and Kallus ,2019). In parallel, electricity markets are amid rapid transforma- tions towards reducing granularity and lead times, facilitating the int egration of non-dispatchable energy sources but increasing the computat ional and adaptability requirements of the oﬀering algorithms. Inadata-richand nonstationaryenvironment,approachesrelyin gononline learning and online convex optimization are of direct relevance. For a very complete introduction to these topics, the reader is referred to Shalev-Shwartz et al(2012). On the one hand, online learning algorithms free the decision- maker from most assumptions about the wind or market dynamics, s ince it doesnotrequirespeciﬁcprobabilisticforecastsormodelsaboutsu chdynamics. This is more generally the case for a broad range of prescriptive ana lytics approachesthatbypasstheforecastingstep.Ontheotherhan d,onlinelearning algorithmsaretypically eﬃcient methods capable ofadaptingto the in creasing computational needs (as will be illustrated by the numerical case st udy in this paper). Furthermore,the online learninganalysis is based on regre tas opposed tothe classicalmaximizationoftheexpectedutility, possiblyallowingt oderive additional insights into the properties of trading strategies. 1.2 Status quo with trading wind energy and underlying newsvendor problems Most wind energy is traded in wholesale electricity markets (referre d to as for- ward markets in this paper), where an oﬀer is submitted prior to the actual Springer Nature 2021 L ATEX template Online Decision Making for Trading Wind Energy 3 delivery of energy. However, the stochastic nature of wind energ y entails incur- ringdeviations fromthe originaloﬀer. Therearecountlesswaysof approaching this problemdepending onthe marketstructureand howuncertain tyis accom- modated, and therefore, it is infeasible to fully address such a vast literature. However, let us provide an overview in the following. As a starting poin t, and since there is no single authoritative review that covers this topic of renew- able energy oﬀering in electricity markets, we refer the reader to Morales et al(2014), where the authors study diﬀerent market variants and strate gies assumingaclassicalstochasticprogrammingframework,aswellas Conejoet al (2010), which introduces general concepts of decision-making under un cer- tainty within electricity markets. We deal, in particular, with markets with a dual-price settlement for imbalances, under which there is no poss ibility of beneﬁting from a deviation and where imbalance penalties are asymme tric. Early works in this area proposed an optimal quantile strategy base d on probabilistic forecasts for wind energy production ( Bremnes ,2004). Speciﬁ- cally,Pinson et al (2007) showed that, in its simplest version of a risk-neutral wind farm without any other assets (e.g., storage, conventional g eneration), the oﬀering problem necessarily takes the form of a newsvendor pr oblem. Various generalizations were explored by others. Zugno et al (2013a) pro- posed constraining the oﬀer in both power and probability spaces in o rder to accommodate risk aversion and behavioral aspects of trading (e.g ., anchoring eﬀects towards traditional single-valued forecasts). In parallel, Mazzi and Pin- son(2016) devised and tested a reinforcement learning algorithm to track th e optimal quantile in a nonstationary environment. Similarly, Dent et al (2011) revisited the problem by accounting for the possibility of a population -based price-making behavior. And, for more complex versions of the oﬀer ing prob- lems, one can revert to a stochastic programming setup ( Morales et al ,2010), for instance, owing to inter-temporal constraints, or risk-aver sion. If generally considering market oﬀering problems where renewable energy prod ucers are not price-takers (i.e., their decision can then aﬀect market outcom es),Baringo and Conejo (2013), as well as Zugno et al (2013b), have proposed approaches based on bilevel optimization. Recently, Kakhbod et al (2021) have investi- gated the population eﬀect of renewable energy producers and ho w
__label__energy	Frequency Quality in Low-Inertia Power Systems Taulant K erc i, IEEE Member , Manuel Hurtado, Mariglen Gjergji,ySimon Tweed, Eoin Kennedy, and Federico Milano,zIEEE Fellow Transmission System Operator, EirGrid, plc IrelandyTransmission System Operator, OST, sha AlbaniazSchool of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University College Dublin Ireland Abstract This paper analyses the issue of frequency quality in low-inertia power systems. The analysis is based on a real-world large-scale low-inertia power system namely, the All-Island trans- mission system (AITS) of Ireland and Northern Ireland currently accommodating up to 75 of non-synchronous generation. The paper is motivated by a recent trend of some frequency quality parameters such as the standard frequency deviation and the slow frequency restoration. The paper ﬁrst discusses the frequency control services currently in place to ensure frequency quality in the AITS. An analysis of the frequency quality parameters of the AITS is then presented based on actual data. The paper also discusses, through an illustrative example, the effectiveness of automatic generation control as a potential approach to keep frequency within the operational range. Index Terms Frequency quality, low-inertia power systems, automatic generation control (AGC). I. I NTRODUCTION A. Motivation The displacement of conventional synchronous generators by converter-interfaced generation such as solar and wind energy leads to reduced levels of system inertia. Large- scale low-inertia power grids face many challenges, including but not limited to frequency stability, voltage stability, and converter-driven stability 1 . While the power system commu- nity including both academia and industry is working towards addressing the above challenges, an emerging critical issue that, so far, has received little to no attention is frequency quality. The objectives of this paper are to ﬁll this gap and to raise awareness in the community on the topic. B. Literature Review Transmission system operators (TSOs) in Europe (including EirGrid and SONI) deﬁne frequency quality in terms of differ- ent target deﬁning parameters. Table I shows the main param- eters for the Continental European (CE) and Ireland Northern Ireland (IE NI) TSOs 2 , 3 . Keeping these parameters within limits help: (i) to better control the operation of the power T. K erc i, M. Hurtado, S. Tweed, E. Kennedy are with Innovation Planning ofﬁce, EirGrid plc, Ireland; M. Gjergji is with SCADA EMS ofﬁce, OST sha, Albania; and F. Milano is with School of Electrical Electronic Engineering, University College Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland. E-mails: ftaulant.kerci, manuel.hurtado, simon.tweed, eoin.kennedy g eirgrid.com, mariglen.gjergji ost.al, federico.milano ucd.ie. F. Milano is partly supported by the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) under project FRESLIPS, Grant No. RDD 00681.TABLE I: Frequency quality parameters of the CE and IE NI 2 , 3 . Parameter CE IE NI Standard frequency range 50 mHz 200 mHz Maximum instantaneous frequency deviation 800 mHz 1000 mHz Maximum steady-state frequency deviation 200 mHz 500 mHz Time to recover frequency not used 1 minute Frequency recovery range not used 500 mHz Time to restore frequency 15 minutes 15 minutes Frequency restoration range not used 200 mHz Alert state trigger time 5 minutes 10 minutes Maximum number of minutes15,000 15,000outside the standard frequency range 00:00:00 10:37:44 20:13:52 Time h 49.8049.8549.9049.9550.0050.0550.1050.1550.20Frequency Hz FrequencyAlbania 00:00:00 11:06:40 22:13:20 Time h 49.8049.8549.9049.9550.0050.0550.1050.1550.20 FrequencyIreland Fig. 1: Frequency in the CE and IE NI power systems for 01.01.2021. system and prevent damage to plant and equipment; (ii) keep the electric time on clocks that rely on counting the zero crossings; (iii) maintain the relevance of power system analysis that is generally performed at the nominal frequency; (iv) prevent motors from stalling; and (v) increase the trust of TSO customers and market participants on supply reliability and quality, etc. Note the wider range of most of the parameters of IE NI compared to the parameters deﬁned for the CE control area. For example, the standard frequency range for the CE and IE NI control areas are 50 mHz and 200 mHz, respectively. Such parameters make sense considering that the CE synchronous area accounts for around 435 GW of peak demand (largest synchronous electrical grid in the world) compared to 6.9 GW of the All-Island transmission system (AITS) (i.e., it is harder to control frequency in a small power system). To better illustrate these differences, Fig. 1 shows the frequency trace of the Albanian (part of CE) and AITS (IE NI) for 01.01.2021. Clearly, and as expected, frequency ﬂuctuates much more in the AITS compared to the CE power system.arXiv:2302.01630v1 eess.SY 3 Feb 2023 Recent research has demonstrated that there is an almost linear relationship between renewables penetration and fre- quency variations 4 7 . This suggest that there is a need to deploy more and faster reserve resources to deal with the ever increasing penetration of stochastic and intermit- tent renewable sources. For example, due to increased intra- interval ﬂuctuations and limited ramping from generators, the frequency deviations in a provincial power system in China increased from 0.019 to 0.032 Hz from 2014 to 2020 (i.e., 68.4 increase) 8 . In the same vein, reference 9 focuses on the issue of frequency quality for Southwest China considering the operation data from asynchronous operation tests and automatic generation control (AGC). It is also worth mentioning that controlling the frequency in power systems with high shares of photo-voltaic (PV) is a challenging task due to PV power dropping much faster than, for example, wind power (e.g., 60 of the installed power capacity per minute when cloud passes) 10 . A way to meet frequency quality standards in low-inertia systems is that renewable energies and emerging technologies such as battery energy storage systems (BESS) provide fre- quency support. In this context, references 11 , 12 study the participation of a 30 and 10 MW wind farms in AGC and show their potential by testing the behavior against ﬁeld measurements and experimental results, respectively. On the other hand, the potential of solar PV providing AGC services under different conditions (solar resource intensity) is shown in 13 through a successful 300 MW power plant test. BESS is shown to respond well to AGC commands set-points
__label__energy	Data-driven operator learning for energy-efficient building control Yuexin Bian, Yuanyuan Shi Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego , La Jolla, 92037, USA ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Building energy systems Ventilation control Energy efficiency Indoor air quality Neural operator learningABSTRACT Energy-efficient ventilation control plays a vital role in reducing building energy consumption while ensuringoccupanthealthandcomfort.WhileComputationalFluidDynamics(CFD)simulationsoffer high-fidelity modeling of airflow for building HVAC design, their high computational cost makes them impractical for practical adoption in real-time building management system. In this work, we presentadata-drivenframeworkthatcombinesthephysicalaccuracyofCFDwiththecomputational efficiency of machine learning to enable energy-efficient building ventilation control. Our method jointly optimizes airflow supply rates and vent angles to reduce energy use and adhere to air quality constraints.Wetrainaneuraloperatortransformertolearnthemappingfrombuildingcontrolactions toairflowfielddistributionsusinghigh-resolutionCFDdata.Thislearnedoperatorenablesagradient- basedcontrolframeworkcapableofoptimaldecision-making.Experimentalresultsdemonstratethat our approach achieves substantial energy savings compared to maximum airflow rate control, rule- basedcontrol,anddata-drivencontrolbasedonregionalaverageCO2predictions,whileconsistently maintaining safe indoor air quality. These results highlight the practicality and scalability of our method for enabling safe and energy-efficient building management. 1. Introduction 1.1. Background and motivation Buildings account for nearly 40 of global energy con- sumption 1 ,withHeating,Ventilation,andAirCondition- ing (HVAC) systems being among the primary contribu- tors. As the demand for sustainable and intelligent energy solutions rises, ventilation systems have emerged as a crit- ical area for optimization 2 . Proper ventilation not only reduces energy consumption but also plays a vital role in maintaining indoor air quality, directly impacting occupant health and overall comfort. In the wake of the COVID- 19 pandemic, attention to building ventilation control has grown considerably 3 . Public health agencies and build- ing operators increasingly recognize the need for adaptive ventilationsystemsthatrespondtooccupancyandpollutant levels. However, the challenge lies in achieving this adap- tivity without incurring excessive energy costs. A smarter, data-drivenapproachtoventilationisurgentlyneeded one that balances energy consumption and health in real-time. Despite their potential, most buildings still rely on fixed orrule-basedHVACcontrolstrategies 4,5,6 .Forexample, beginninginspring2020,FacilitiesManagementatUCSan Diego implemented a policy of maximum fresh-air intake with minimal or no recirculation during office hours 6 , whichledtoa2 2.5 increaseinbuildingenergyconsump- tion compared to nominal levels. While these ventilation strategies aim to improve indoor air quality, they often do so at the expense of significantly higher energy costs. More advanced data-driven approaches, such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) 7, 8, 9, 10 , or Reinforcement Learning(RL) 11,12,13,14 havebeenexploredtoimprove energy efficiency and air quality. However, most existing approaches predict only a single-point or spatially averaged CO2concentrationtorepresentindoorairqualitydynamics. Corresponding author ORCID(s):0000-0002-6182-7664 (Y. Shi)Theseapproachesfailtocapturethespatialandtemporaldy- namicsofhowcontrolactionsinfluenceairquality,limiting their ability to make targeted adjustments. As a result, they canover-ventilatetheentirespacetocompensateforunseen variations, leading to increased energy consumption. To design effective and energy-efficient building man- agement, it is critical to model and manage the spatial- temporal distribution of airflow and contaminants within indoor spaces. Inadequate spatial modeling not only leads to compromised indoor air quality but also causes signif- icant energy waste, as over-ventilation or inefficient air- flow distribution demands unnecessary HVAC power 15 . Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) provides this capa- bility through partial differential equations (PDEs), offer- ing high-resolution simulations of airflow behavior 15, 16, 17, 18 . However, solving PDEs using classical numeri- cal techniques, such as finite element, finite volume, or spectral methods, is computationally prohibitive 19 . As a result, CFD modeling has been predominantly applied to HVACsystemdesignandofflineindoorairqualityanalysis, rather than real-time online control or operational deploy- ment aimed at optimizing energy use in buildings. This gap between high-fidelity airflow modeling and real-time, energy-focused control remains a major bottleneck in ad- vancingintelligentandsustainablebuildingHVACsystems. There is a critical need for a framework that preserves the physical fidelity of CFD while enabling fast inference and optimizationforreal-timebuildingenergymanagementand ventilation control. 1.2. Literature review Building HVAC control. Buildingcontrolwithindoorair quality considerations often presents a trade-off: enhancing airqualitytypicallyrequiresgreaterventilationrates,which in turn increase energy consumption. Balancing these com- peting demands remains a central challenge in intelligent Yuexin Bian et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 13arXiv:2504.21243v1 eess.SY 30 Apr 2025 Data-driven operator learning for energy-efficient building control Building Airﬂow ModelingOperator LearningEnergy-eﬃcient Building control EncoderEmbeddinggDecoder thousandfold speedup in forecastEnergy Saving Predictive air distributionOptimal control Supply airﬂow rate Vent angleAirﬂowPhysics PDE model CFD simulationNeural operator prediction Figure 1: Schematic of our data-driven operator learning framework for energy-efficient ventilation control. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations are used to model complex 3D airflow and CO2spatiotemporal dynamics. A neural operator transformer is trained to learn the mapping between ventilation control actions and airflow field evolution. Leveraging high- fidelity simulation data, our approach enables real-time optimization of ventilation strategies to minimize energy consumption while maintaining indoor air quality. HVAC control systems. To inform ventilation control deci- sions, indoor air quality dynamics are commonly approxi- mated by modeling the temporal evolution of a single-point orspatially-averagedCO2concentration,eitherthroughsim- ple data-driven methods or ordinary differential equation (ODE) models. For instance, Li et al. 20 modeled indoor CO2dynamicsusingordinarydifferentialequations(ODEs) and optimized the supply airflow rates through MPC. Li et al. 21 proposed to predict future CO2with a deep neural network, and optimized fan pressure and damper positionsbasedontheaveragepredictions.Shangetal. 14 modeled indoor PM2.5 concentrations with an ODE and employed reinforcement learning to control the air purifier exchange rate, improving energy efficiency while maintain- ing air quality. However, such ODE-based models neglect spatialvariations,whicheithercreatepoorlyventilateddead zones 3 thatriskoccupants healthandcomfort,orleadto conservative control with high energy consumption 15 . To accurately model the airflow dynamics, partial dif- ferentialequations(PDE)-basedmodelsincludingcomputa- tionalfluiddynamics(CFD)simulationsshouldbeadopted. Hosseinloo et al. 3 modeled 2D pathogen concentration using convection-diffusion equations and optimized the ve- locity field through RL. However, directly optimizing the entire velocity field is impractical, as control is limited to the boundary airflow velocity at the supply air vents. Bian et al. 15 modeled indoor airflow and CO2dynamics us- ing the Navier Stokes and convection diffusion equations, and optimized the ventilation control actions through PDE- constrained optimization. However, the proposed adjoint- based method is computationally expensive and was only demonstratedinatwo-dimensionalofficeroomsetting.Ning et al. 16 used CFD to study airflow fields and CO2con- centrationswithinabedroomtoinformthedesignofsupply outletheights.However,duetothesignificantcomputational burden of CFD solvers, most existing work remains limitedto offline HVAC system design and analysis, rather than supporting online building control and optimization. Operator learning. Recentadvancesinmachinelearning have demonstrated significant potential in accelerating the solution of PDEs, particularly for fluid dynamics problems. Neural operators, which learn mappings between functions
__label__energy	Data-driven Predictive Control for Unlocking Building Energy Flexibility: A Review Anjukan Kathirgamanathana,b,1, , Mattia De Rosaa,b, Eleni Manginab,c, Donal P. Finna,b aSchool of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, University College Dublin bUCD Energy Institute, O Brien Centre for Science, University College Dublin cSchool of Computer Science, University College Dublin Abstract Managing supply and demand in the electricity grid is becoming more challenging due to the increasing penetration of variable renewable energy sources. As signi cant end-use con- sumers, and through better grid integration, buildings are expected to play an expanding role in the future smart grid. Predictive control allows buildings to better harness available energy exibility from the building passive thermal mass. However, due to the heteroge- neous nature of the building stock, developing computationally tractable control-oriented models, which adequately represent the complex and nonlinear thermal-dynamics of indi- vidual buildings, is proving to be a major hurdle. Data-driven predictive control, coupled with the Internet of Things , holds the promise for a scalable and transferrable approach, with data-driven models replacing traditional physics-based models. This review examines recent work utilising data-driven predictive control for demand side management application with a special focus on the nexus of model development and control integration, which to date, previous reviews have not addressed. Further topics examined include the practical requirements for harnessing passive thermal mass and the issue of feature selection. Current research gaps are outlined and future research pathways are suggested to identify the most promising data-driven predictive control techniques for grid integration of buildings. Highlights: A review of 115 data-driven predictive control studies in building energy management. Growing trend of research on data-driven predictive control in recent years. High level of simpli cation in modelling seen, mostly applied to single buildings. Gaps identi ed were feature selection, benchmarking, data quality and scalability. Keywords: review, building energy exibility, data-driven, machine learning, Model Predictive Control (MPC), smart grid Word Count: 10884 Corresponding author Email address: anjukan.kathirgamanathan ucdconnect.ie (Anjukan Kathirgamanathan) Preprint submitted to Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews July 30, 2020arXiv:2007.14866v1 eess.SY 29 Jul 2020 1. Introduction 1.1. The Importance of Building Energy Flexibility in the Smart Grid Renewable energy sources such as wind and solar are intrinsically variable by nature and this creates a stability issue for the grid with the uctuating supply needing to be balanced with demand 1 . In their review of the future of the low-carbon electricity grid, Greenblatt et al. 2 review such conventional renewable energy technologies. They suggest that these technologies alone do not represent an ideal solution and that grid integration is required in conjunction to deliver a reliable and robust electricity system. Holttinen et al. 3 focus on the impacts of large amounts of wind power on the design and operation of power systems. Similarly, Haegel et al. 4 address the same question and barriers with large penetrations of solar photovoltaics. Villar et al. 5 summarise some of the challenges faced by this new power system and the need for new exibility products and markets. The exibility to manage any mismatch can come from either the supply side (through the use of dedicated conventional power plants or storage) or from the demand side 1, 6 . Demand Side Management (DSM) is one such grid integration strategy and can be broadly categorised as actions that in uence the quantity, patterns of use or the primary source of energy consumed by end users 7 . Demand Response (DR) is one promising facet of DSM where consumers curtail or shift their electricity usage in response to nancial or other incentives. Within DR, there are di erent strategies based on the response times, services o ered and business models 8 . With buildings representing about 40 of the total primary energy consumption in Eu- rope 9 , they are very relevant to participation in DR and the provision of energy exibility. Further, the thermal mass of buildings allows them to be used as a thermal energy storage making them potentially very useful in DSM 10 . Commercial buildings are of particular interest given their greater thermal mass and common usage of space conditioning. This is often through the use of heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems and this HVAC load is one such load that can be shifted using the thermal mass of the building. These HVAC systems are often integrated with Building Automation Systems (BAS) or Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS) which can be used to automate DR measures. These systems are also capable of receiving signals directly from the electricity grid 11 . Buildings may often also possess active thermal storage, active electric storage (batteries), indirect electric storage (Electric Vehicles (EVs)) and on-site generation as further sources of energy exibility. DR programs can be categorised as being either price or incentive based 12 . Incentive- based programmes pay customers (end-users) to shift their electricity consumption at times requested by grid operators. Grid operators can be either Distribution System Operators (DSO), who are generally responsible for the operation of the low-voltage distribution system and delivery of power to the end consumers; or Transmission System Operators (TSO), who are responsible for the operation of the high-voltage transmission system and ensuring its stability. Generally, a building is required to be capable of meeting a minimum required reduction in power consumption. While individual buildings may not be capable of meeting this reduction, aggregators are a market actor who contract with these buildings and combine the available power reduction and o er this to the grid operator, receiving a percentage of 2 the value to the grid operator created by applying the DSM measure 13 . Given that energy exibility is a resource that is aggregated from many buildings, which are all unique in the way that they are constructed, designed and operated, a scalable and transferrable method of assessing and harnessing this energy exibility is required. 1.2. Approaches to Assess and Harness Building Energy Flexibility Approaches to assess and harness energy exibility generally require as input; data, a model and a control framework.
__label__energy	1 Energy Sharing among Resources within Electrical Distribution Systems: A Systematic Review G Hari Krishna, K. Victor Sam Moses Babu, Divyanshi Dwivedi, Pratyush Chakraborty, Pradeep Kumar Yemula, Mayukha Pal Abstract The rapid increase in Electric Vehicle (EV) adoption provides a promising solution for reducing carbon emissions and fossil fuel dependency in transportation systems. However, the increasing numbers of EVs pose significant challenges to the electrical grids. In addition, the number of Distributed Energy Resources (DER) and Microgrids (MGs) is increasing on a global scale to meet the energy demand, consequently changing the energy infrastructure. Recently, energy-sharing methods have been proposed to share excess energy from DERs and EVs in Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure (EVCI) and MGs. Accommodating this sharing mechanism with the existing electrical distribution systems is a critical issue concerning the economic, reliability, and resilience aspects. This study examines the ever-changing field of EVCI and the critical role of Peer- to-Peer (P2P) energy trading in mitigating the problems with grid management that result from unorganized EV charging and intermittency in DER. Also, the possibilities of energy sharing in electrical distribution systems for microgrids and EVCI on various energy-sharing methods and algorithms are discussed in detail. Furthermore, the application of market clearing algorithms like game theory, double auction theory, blockchain technology, optimization techniques, machine learning algorithms, and other models from the existing literature are presented. This paper discusses the policies, economic benefits, environmental impacts, societal advantages, and challenges in distribution systems related to sharing in EVCI and MGs. A roadmap for future research and sharing strategies is provided to guide policymakers, researchers, and industry stakeholders toward a sustainable, resilient, and efficient energy market by integrating P2P technology into EVCIs and MGs. Index Terms Blockchain technology, electric vehicle, electric vehicle charging infrastructure, electrical distribution systems, double auction theory, game theory, machine learning, peer-to- peer energy trading, sharing models, vehicle-to-grid. (Corresponding author: Mayukha Pal) Mr. G Hari Krishna is a Data Science Research Intern at ABB Ability Innovation Center, Hyderabad 500084, India and also a Research Scholar at the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad 500078, IN. Mr. K. Victor Sam Moses Babu is a Data Science Research Intern at ABB Ability Innovation Center, Hyderabad 500084, India and also a Research Scholar at the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad 500078, IN. Mrs. Divyanshi Dwivedi is a Data Science Research Intern at ABB Ability Innovation Center, Hyderabad 500084, India, and also a Research Scholar at the Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad 502205, IN. Dr. Pratyush Chakraborty is an Assistant Professor with the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad 500078, IN. Dr. Pradeep Kumar Yemula is an Associate Professor with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad 502205, IN. Dr. Mayukha Pal is with ABB Ability Innovation Center, Hyderabad- 500084, IN, working as Global R D Leader Cloud Analytics (e-mail: mayukha.pal in.abb.com).ACRONYMS CHP Combined Heat and Power DER Distributed Energy Resources DR Demand Response EDS Electrical Distribution Systems EMS Energy Management Systems ESS Energy Storage Systems EV Electric Vehicle EVCI Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure EVCS Electrical Vehicle Charging Station FiTs Feed-in-Tariffs GHG Green House Gases IEA International Energy Agency MDP Markov Decision Process MGs Microgrids ML Machine Learning P2P Peer-to-Peer PEV Plug-in Electric Vehicle PHEV Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle PPAs Power Purchase Agreements PSO Particle Swarm Optimization PVPhotovoltaic RL Reinforcement Learning SGSmart Grid SoC State of Charge SoD State of Discharge ToU Time of Use V2G Vehicle to Grid VPP Virtual Power Plant I. I NTRODUCTION A. Background Motivation As the world is looking to achieve sustainable development goals 1 , the realization of optimal utilization of resources has increased. The usage of clean energy, reduction of greenhouse gases, and energy-efficient systems is gaining importance. The Paris Agreement (2015), in alignment with the Kyoto Protocol (1997) and endorsed by the majority of nations as confirmed in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), commits to the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and carbon footprint 2 , 3 . This commitment includes the adoption of renewable energy sources, particularly solar energy, for electricity generation. As of 2022, renewable energy sources accounted for 14.2 of the global energy 4 . Fig. 1 shows the percentage breakdown of various countries electricity generation through renewable sources. According toarXiv:2401.01597v1 eess.SY 3 Jan 2024 2 Fig. 1: Renewables ( equivalent primary energy) for entities across the world in 2022 4 . Fig. 2: Projected EV sales with existing scenario, proposed policies scenario, and sustainable development scenario for the corresponding years from 2020 to 2030 6 . the International Energy Agency (IEA) 5 , this percentage is expected to rise to 35 by 2025, indicating a significant shift towards renewable energy on a global scale. The proliferation of electric vehicles is also gaining pop- ularity as an alternative to conventional internal combustion engines and Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV). The world is seeing phenomenal changes in the transportation sector due to the surge in EVs. The sale of EVs touched a milestone of 10 million in the year 2020 with the existing policies implemented by the nations. With this rapid adaption rate, the IEA predicts that the EVs with the proposed policies are estimated to increase to 145 million by the year 2030 with a sustainable development scenario and expected share of 34 , as illustrated in Fig. 2 6 . The ever-increasing demand for energy presents a significant challenge to the current power grid infrastructure. The global energy consumption from 1970 to 2022, as depicted in Fig. 3, exhibits a consistent upward trend, indicative of a pattern expected to increase further in the forthcoming years. In addition, the number of EVs on the road is increasing rapidly, leading to a higher demand for electricity. As a result, there is Fig. 3: Primary energy consumption: World statistics 7 . an urgent need to adopt DER, enhance microgrid capabilities, and improve EVCI. The intersection of these
__label__energy	University of Southern Denmark A Modifiable Architectural Design for Commercial Greenhouses Energy Economic Dispatch Testbed Clausen, Christian Skafte Beck; Jørgensen, Bo Nørregaard; Ma, Zheng Grace Published in: Energy Informatics DOI: 10.1007 978-3-031-48649-4_14 Publication date: 2024 Document version: Accepted manuscript Citation for pulished version (APA): Clausen, C. S. B., Jørgensen, B. N., Ma, Z. G. (2024). A Modifiable Architectural Design for Commercial Greenhouses Energy Economic Dispatch Testbed. In B. N. Jørgensen, L. C. P. da Silva, Z. Ma (Eds.), Energy Informatics: Third Energy Informatics Academy Conference, EI.A 2023, Campinas, Brazil, December 6 8, 2023, Proceedings, Part I (pp. 234 252). Springer. https: doi.org 10.1007 978-3-031-48649-4_14 Go to publication entry in University of Southern Denmark s Research Portal Terms of use This work is brought to you by the University of Southern Denmark. Unless otherwise specified it has been shared according to the terms for self-archiving. If no other license is stated, these terms apply: You may download this work for personal use only. You may not further distribute the material or use it for any profit-making activity or commercial gain You may freely distribute the URL identifying this open access version If you believe that this document breaches copyright please contact us providing details and we will investigate your claim. Please direct all enquiries to puresupport bib.sdu.dk Download date: 08. Jan. 2024 A Modifiable Architectural Design for Commercial Greenhouses Energy Economic Dispatch Testbed Christian Skafte Beck Clausen 1 0000 -0003 -3118 -7253 , Bo Nørregaard Jørgensen 1 0000 -0001 - 5678 -6602 and Zheng Grace Ma 1 0000 -0002 -9134 -1032 1 SDU Center for Energy Informatics, Maersk Mc -Kinney Moeller Institute, The Faculty of En- gineering, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark csbc mmmi.sdu.dk Abstract. Facing economic challenges due to the diverse objectives of busi- nesses, and consumers, commercial greenhouses strive to minimize energy costs while addressing CO 2 emissions. This scenario is intensified by rising energy costs and the global imperative to c urtail CO 2 emissions. To address these dy- namic economic challenges, this paper proposes an architectural design for an energy economic dispatch testbed for commercial greenhouses. Utilizing the At- tribute -Driven Design method, core architectural components of a software -in- the-loop testbed are proposed which emphasizes modularity and careful consid- eration of the multi -objective optimization problem. This approach extends prior research by implementing a modular multi -objective optimization framework in Java. The results demonstrate the successful integration of the CO 2 reduction ob- jective within the modular architecture with minimal effort. The multi -objective optimization output can also be employed to examine cost and CO 2 objectives, ultimately serving as a valuable decision -support tool. The novel testbed archi- tecture and a modular approach can tackle the multi -objective optimization prob- lem and enable commercial greenhouses to navigate the intricate landscape of energy cost and CO 2 emissions management. Keywords: Modifiability, architecture , economic dispatch , testbed, greenhouse energy systems . 1 Introduction Commercial greenhouses confront economic challenges stemming from the dynamic objectives of businesses, consumers, and policymakers. From a business st andpoint, greenhouses aim to minimize energy costs, while from a societal perspective, stake- holders such as consumers and policymakers strive to reduce CO 2 emissions. These challenges are intensified by escalating energy costs and the global urgency to cur b CO 2 emissions. The landscape is further complicated by fluctuating energy prices and CO 2 emissions dependent on specific energy technologies. Commercial greenhouses operating in cold and low -light climates utilize heterogeneous energy systems to meet plant growth demands by providing supplemental heat and electricity. In the prevailing scenario, greenhouse operators determine daily optimal energy system operation based 2 on fluctuating energy prices, climate data, and plant information. This economic dis- patch procedure, typically executed in spreadsheets, is both costly and error -prone, in- volving models that are difficult to adapt to evolving business, consumer, and policy- maker objectives. Therefore, t o address these dynamic economic challenges, this paper a ims to present an architectural design for a testbed focused on the modifiability of energy economic dispatch in commercial greenhouses, addressing the associated challenges. The paper is organized as follows. Section 1.1 describes related research. Secti on 2 describes the methodology. Section 3 identifies stakeholders and high -level require- ments. Section 4 describes the experimental setup. Section 5 presents the results. Sec- tion 6 discusses the results. Section 7 concludes the paper and lists future work. 1.1 Related Works Economic dispatch is a regular method in energy systems that aims to dispatch instruc- tions to generation units while minimizing costs given the constraints of load demands 1 . Costs include all relevant economic aspects in the domain. Economic dispatch has been applied in e.g., power systems 2-4 , demand response 5 , and greenhouses 6, 7 . In essence, economic dispatch is an optimization problem and can be implemented in numerous ways; merit order dispa tch 8, 9 , multi -objective optimization 2, 10 , genetic algorithms 11-13 , and particle swarm optimization 14 to mention a few. Each method has inherent advantages disadvantages. The economic dispatch algorithm must be ver ified b efore deploying it to operation. The verification methods apply the dispatch instructions on generation units in a simu- lated environment . The type of environment depends on the application s needs, but examples include discrete -event and real-time s imulation environments . The purpose is to verify the performance of the dispatcher in open - or closed -loop control systems . The control loop requires models of the generation units under the system environment conditions . White -, grey-, and black -box methods are applied to deriving models that describe the reality of the systems. Recent approaches include digital twins that utilize the Internet of Things (IoT) to ( i) mimic the behavior of the physical twins and ( ii) operate the physical twin through its inherent cognitive abilities 15 . In-the-loop paradigm s can utilize the virtual model or digital twin at various devel- opment stages. Software -in-the-loop (SIL)
__label__energy	A PRACTICAL ADVERSARIAL ATTACK ON CONTINGENCY DETECTION OF SMART ENERGY SYSTEMS Moein Sabounchi and Jin Wei-Kocsis Department of Computer and Information Technology - Purdue University ABSTRACT Due to the advances in computing and sensing, deep learning (DL) has widely been applied in smart energy systems (SESs). These DL-based solutions have proved their po- tentials in improving the effectiveness and adaptiveness of the control systems. However, in recent years, increasing evidence shows that DL techniques can be manipulated by adversarial attacks with carefully-crafted perturbations. Adversarial attacks have been studied in computer vision and natural language processing. However, there is very limited work focusing on the adversarial attack deployment and mitigation in energy systems. In this regard, to better prepare the SESs against potential adversarial attacks, we propose an innovative adversarial attack model that can practically compromise dynamical controls of energy system. We also optimize the deployment of the proposed adversarial attack model by employing deep reinforcement learning (RL) tech- niques. In this paper, we present our ﬁrst-stage work in this direction. In simulation section, we evaluate the performance of our proposed adversarial attack model using standard IEEE 9-bus system. Index Terms Smart Energy System, Adversarial At- tack, Procedural Noise, Gabor Noise, Reinforcement Learn- ing, Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient I. I NTRODUCTION Due to advances in computing and sensing, DL techniques have widely been applied in control management in SESs 1 , which has brought upon the advent of emerging tools to effectively address the uncertainties, disturbances, and unforeseen circumstances that may lead to cascading failures of the systems. However, in recent years, increasing evidence shows that DL techniques can be manipulated by adversarial attacks 2 . Adversarial attacks have been introduced on a variety of formats including evasion-attack 3 , poisoning attack 4 , and inference attack 5 . Based on the knowledge of the attackers, adversarial attacks can also be grouped into white-box, grey-box, and black-box 6 . In recent years, adversarial attacks have been widely studied in computer vision and natural language processing 7 , 8 , including TextAttack, Fast Gradient Sign Attack (FGSM), projected gradient descent (PGD), and DeepFool attacks 8 11 . However, there is very limited work formulating adversarialattack models deployment and mitigation in SESs. As far as we know, the work in 12 is the only published work in formulating adversarial attack models in SESs. In this work, an effective constrained adversarial attack, called ConAML, is implemented to compromise cyber-physical systems. However, this proposed method mainly focuses on mitigating static operations of energy system. In this paper, we propose an innovative black-box evasion-attack model that is able to practically mislead the decision making of con- tingency detection in dynamic operation of SESs. To achieve this goal, we develop a practical model to generate additive procedural-noise adversarial perturbation that is used to manipulate the power system measurements and compromise the decision making of contingency detection. To optimize the deployment of generating procedural-noise adversarial perturbation, we design an adversarial RL agent 13 to determine appropriate hyper-parameters of procedural-noise perturbation and maximize the effect of the perturbation on minimizing the accuracy of contingency detection in dynamic control of SESs. Deep RL is a type of DL, where an agent learns how to optimize the actions in an environment by observing the states and seeing the results. Various deep RL techniques have been developed for different application scenarios, such as deep Q-learning 14 , advantage actor critic 15 , and deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) 16 . Due to the nature of our proposed adversarial RL agent that determines optimal hyper-parameters of procedural- noise adversarial perturbation from a continuous space, we decide to employ the DDPG technique. The rest of this paper is organized as follows, Section II will introduce our proposed black-box evasion-attack for compromising contingency detection in smart energy systems. Sections III and IV will present our performance evaluation and conclusions, respectively. II. P ROPOSED ADVERSARIAL ATTACK MODEL In this section, we propose an adversarial attack, speciﬁ- cally a black-box evasion-attack, which aims to compromise the detection of contingency in dynamic control of SESs. A. Threat Model We formulate the threat model of our proposed evasion- attack as follows: 1) The attacker aims to launch an evasion- attack vector together with other cyber physical-attack vec-arXiv:2109.06358v1 cs.LG 13 Sep 2021 tors to carry out sophisticated and coordinated attacks; 2) The evasion attack aims to increase the opportunity of coordinated cyber physical attack to bypass the DL-based contingency detector of the SESs; 3) Because a contingency detector normally has high security priority for dynamic control of SESs, the DL models for contingency detector should be placed with comprehensive and advanced security measures. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume the attack cannot directly access the DL model. Instead, the attack only have limited access to the inputs and outputs of the DL model via eavesdropping and inference attacks 17 , 18 . Therefore, the proposed evasion attack is assumed to be black-box; 4) The attacker generates the black-box evasion attack by ensuring certain physical principles, such as voltage stability, for realizing the evasion attack to be stealthy; 5) The attacker can access and compromise a subset of the measurement data that are used by the DL-based contingency detector for inference. This can be realized by man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack 19 . B. Proposed Evasion Attack Model Based on the threat model stated above, we develop an innovative evasion attack by exploiting procedural noise 20 and RL techniques. The overview of our proposed work is illustrated in Fig. 1. As it can be seen, the SES measurements are used to detect cyber physical attacks or failures in the system based on a DL-based contingency detector whose behavior can be formulated as a binary multi-class classiﬁer 21 . The adversarial agent on the other hand aims to mislead the decision making of the DL-based contingency detector. To achieve this goal, the attacker accesses and manipu- lates a subset of measurement data of the energy system by performing procedural-noise evasion-attack perturbation generation. This process
__label__energy	Design and implementation of grid -connected photovoltaic power plant with the highest technical Efficiency Mehran Hosseinzadeh Dizaj Ghods Niroo Engineerong Co PhD of Electronic Engineering, m.hoseinzadeh ghods -niroo.com Abstract Energy is a necessity and the basis of human life. With the increase in the need for energy supply in recent years, the use of fossil fuels has intensified. Environment is a basic principle for hum an beings. In our dear country Iran, with an average sundial of approximately 4.5 hours per day, there is the highest potential for the use of photovoltaic systems. Connected to the national power grid as a micro grid, in accordance with the standardization and the highest efficiency with PVsyst software, the system losses were identified and the necessary solutions were provided to solve them. In case of using 1 to 5 kW systems, which due to small It can be installed even on the roofs of houses. In hot cit ies, where electricity consumption increases in the hot seasons of the year, the pressure is removed from the national electricity distribution network, and a significant amount of greenhouse gas emissions to the environment is prevented. , At the end by plotting the current value of the project it was also proven to be economical. Key words: Fossil reserves, Renewable energy, Power plant, Photovoltaic Introduction Today, political, economic crises, and issues such as limited fossil fuel sustainability, environmental concerns, acid rain, global warming, overcrowding, economic growth, and consumption rates are all universal topics that are widely considered by thinkers. Appropriate solutions to the proper solution of energy problems in the world, especially environmental crises, have been busy. The access of developing countries to new types of energy sources is essential for their economic development, and new research has shown that there is a direct relationship between the level of devel opment of a country and its energy consumption. Given the limited reserves of fossil energy and the increasing level of energy consumption in the current world, it is no longer possible to rely on existing energy sources. According to current human technol ogy, nuclear energy and hydropower are two alternative energy sources for fossil fuels. Most countries in the world realize the importance and role of various energy sources, especially renewable energy (new) in meeting current and future needs and widely, in the development of exploitation of these essential resources, extensive research and principled investments. Paying attention to the increasing need for energy consumption and reducing fossil energy sources, the need to protect the environment, reduce air pollution, electricity supply restrictions and fuel supply for remote areas and villages, use of new energy such as wind, solar, hydrogen, biomass, Geothermal can have a special place. Considering such basic and increasing trends in the use of renewabl e energy and related technologies in industrial and developing countries in Iran, it is necessary to develop basic strategies and programs. Photovoltaic solar systems: In recent years, the use of new energy sources has grown significantly due to the limitations and rising prices of fossil fuels as well as environmental issues. Solar energy is the largest source of renewable energy on Earth, available directly and indirectly. There are two ways to benefit from solar energy: 1. Using sunlight and converting it i nto electricity through photovoltaic cells 2. Using the thermal energy of the sun and converting it into other types of energy or using it directly Photovoltaic systems consisting of three general parts: Solar panel, converter and battery, convert solar energy into electricity without any pollution. The conversion of solar energy into electricity is done by a panel or the same as photovoltaic cells, and in order to use it in domestic applications, it converts the generated electricity into alternating current. Finally, with the help of the battery, the extra electrical energy produced in the system can be stored. Other peripherals of the system include wires, circuit breakers and support structures. Figure 1 - Solar arrays User classification of photovoltaic systems: In general, photovoltaic systems are classified into two groups according to their application: grid-connected units and separate units from the grid. In a grid- connected system, electricity generated from solar energy will be injected into the national grid. In other words, in this system, the user supplies his generated electricity to the New Energy Organization (Ministry of Energy). Photovoltaic systems connected to the national grid in a centralized or decentralized manner are used to strengthen the national grid and prevent electrical pressure on power plants during the day. The advantages of this system include easy installation, high efficiency and no need for complex peripherals. Figure 2 shows a grid- connected photovoltaic syst em. Figure 2 - Photovoltaic system connected to the national grid Normally, this type of networking does not require a battery to store electrical energy, but in some cases, energy storage systems, which are mainly batteries, are used to increase the reliability of the network. Therefore, systems connected to the national grid can be classified into two groups with storage system and without storage system. The design of grid-connected photovoltaic systems is such that they generate power simultaneously and in parallel with the national grid. In this method, there is a two- way connection between the photovoltaic systems and the power grid, so that if the DC electricity produced by the photovoltaic systems exceeds the local load requirement, the excess is injected into the national grid, so at night and when Climatic conditions It is not possible to use sunlight. The electricity required by the site is provided by the national electricity network. In general, the electricity generated after being converted by the inverter for grid- connected systems and using special two- way meters, is injected into the national grid. If for any reason the grid is cut off, it is necessary that the solar unit also stops production and cut off loads. Figure 3 is a block diagram of an example of a photovoltaic system without a storage system. Figure 3 - Diagram of a
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	Remote Renewable Hubs For Carbon-Neutral Synthetic Fuel Production Mathias Berger1; , David Radu1, Ghislain Detienne2, Thierry Deschuyteneer2, Aurore Richel3and Damien Ernst1 1Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Li ege, Li ege, Belgium 2Fluxys SA, Brussels, Belgium 3Laboratory of Biomass and Green Technologies, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech - University of Li ege, Gembloux, Belgium Correspondence : Mathias Berger mathias.berger uliege.be ABSTRACT This paper studies the economics of carbon-neutral synthetic fuel production from renewable electricity in remote areas where high-quality renewable resources are abundant. To this end, a graph-based optimisation modelling framework directly applicable to the strategic planning of remote renewable energy supply chains is proposed. More precisely, a (hyper)graph abstraction of planning problems is introduced, wherein nodes can be viewed as optimisation subproblems with their own parameters, variables, constraints and local objective. Nodes typically represent a subsystem such as a technology, a plant or a process. Hyperedges, on the other hand, express the connectivity between subsystems. The framework is leveraged to study the economics of carbon-neutral synthetic methane production from solar and wind energy in North Africa and its delivery to Northwestern European markets. The full supply chain is modelled in an integrated fashion, which makes it possible to accurately capture the interaction between various technologies on hourly time scales. Results suggest that the cost of synthetic methane production and delivery would be slightly under 150 e MWh (higher heating value) by 2030 for a system supplying 10 TWh annually and relying on a combination of solar photovoltaic and wind power plants, assuming a uniform weighted average cost of capital of 7 . A comprehensive sensitivity analysis is also carried out in order to assess the impact of various techno-economic parameters and assumptions on synthetic methane cost, including the availability of wind power plants, the investment costs of electrolysis, methanation and direct air capture plants, their operational ﬂexibility, the energy consumption of direct air capture plants, and ﬁnancing costs. The most expensive conﬁguration (around 200 e MWh) relies on solar photovoltaic power plants alone, while the cheapest conﬁguration (around 88 e MWh) makes use of a combination of solar PV and wind power plants and is obtained when ﬁnancing costs are set to zero. Keywords: optimisation, renewable energy, carbon neutral, synthetic fuels, remote supply chain, linear programming, structured models, graph 1arXiv:2102.11375v2 eess.SY 10 Jun 2021 Berger et al. Remote Renewable Hubs For Carbon-Neutral Synthetic Fuel Production 1 INTRODUCTION Electricity generation from renewable resources combined with wide-ranging electriﬁcation has been a mainstay of European climate and energy policies, with the primary goal of decarbonising the power sector as well as other carbon-intensive sectors. Major obstacles to such endeavours have nevertheless surfaced in recent years. Firstly, sectors like aviation, shipping, heating or industry have proved difﬁcult to fully electrify. Indeed, feedstocks and energy carriers with speciﬁc properties such as a high energy density are typically required (Eveloy et al., 2021). Hence, the production of carbon-neutral synthetic fuels and feedstocks from renewable electricity has been the focus of a growing body of literature. For example, the synthesis of carbon-neutral hydrogen (Borgschulte, 2016), methane (Biswas et al., 2020), methanol (Centi et al., 2020) and ammonia (Ghavam et al., 2021) have all been considered. A number of demonstration projects have been carried out as well (Wulf et al., 2020). Secondly, it has become clear that the technical renewable potential of some European countries (i.e., the maximum amount of renewable electricity that may produced within a country s borders and exclusive economic zone, while accounting for a variety of land eligibility constraints (Ryberg et al., 2018)) is insufﬁcient to supply current energy demand levels (e.g., in densely-populated countries like Belgium (Berger et al., 2020; Limpens et al., 2020) or the United Kingdom (MacKay, 2008)). It is still unclear whether pooling renewable resources at the European level would alleviate the problem. On the other hand, it is well-documented that social acceptance issues tend to compound it (Segreto et al., 2020). A simple solution consists in harvesting renewable resources in remote areas where they are abundant, synthesising carbon-neutral fuels or feedstocks using renewable electricity and transporting them back to demand centres (Fasihi et al., 2015; Chapman et al., 2017; Heuser et al., 2019). However, two conditions must be satisﬁed for such an approach to be worth pursuing. Firstly, transport should be energy-efﬁcient and cost-effective. This will often depend on the physics of the commodity considered and the maturity of technologies available to handle it. Secondly, very-high-quality renewable resources should be tapped. The quality of such resources is typically estimated via the annual capacity factor of a given technology harnessing them, which directly reﬂects the amount of electricity that may be produced per unit capacity. Since renewable power generation technologies usually have very low operating costs, the higher the capacity factor, the lower the electricity cost. Regions with outstanding resources and vast technical potential include Patagonia (wind) (Heuser et al., 2019), North Africa (sun and wind) (Fasihi et al., 2015) and Greenland (wind) (Radu et al., 2019). Providing an accurate quantitative assessment of the economics and efﬁciency of such remote renewable energy supply chains and pathways is critical to evaluate future sustainable energy supply options available to policy makers and society at large as well as to identify where to direct future research and innovation efforts. From a conceptual standpoint, a supply chain can be viewed as a networked system composed of dynamical subsystems interacting with each other. In order to tackle the problem formulated above, the collection of processes and technologies forming a remote renewable energy supply chain must be analysed in an integrated fashion, which makes it possible to properly capture the interactions between subsystems in space and time. In addition, a sufﬁcient level of technical detail and temporal resolution should be used to properly model their operation (Poncelet et al., 2016). This paper formalises these considerations and proposes a graph-based optimisation modelling framework directly applicable to the strategic planning and analysis of remote renewable energy supply chains. More precisely, a graph abstraction of planning problems
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	arXiv:2504.08060v1 eess.SY 10 Apr 20251 Techno-economic environmental and social assessment framework for energy transition pathways in integrated energy communities: a case study in Alaska Jayashree Yadav, Member, IEEE, Ingemar Mathiasson, Bindu Panikkar and Mads Almassalkhi, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The transition to low-carbon energy systems de- mands comprehensive evaluation tools that account for tech nical, economic, environmental, and social dimensions. While num erous studies address speciﬁc aspects of energy transition, few p rovide an integrated framework that captures the full spectrum of impacts. This study proposes a comprehensive techno-econo mic, environmental, and social (TEES) assessment framework to evaluate energy transition pathways. The framework provid es a structured methodology for assessing infrastructure nee ds, cost implications, emissions reductions, and social equit y im- pacts, offering a systematic approach for informed decisio n- making. To illustrate its applicability, a detailed case st udy of a remote community in Alaska is conducted, evaluating the TEES impacts of three distinct energy transition pathwa ys including heat pumps (HPs) and battery integration, resour ce coordination and expanded community solar photovoltaic (P V). Findings show that coordination of HPs minimizes peak deman d, enhances grid reliability, and reduces energy burdens amon g low- income households. Extensive simulation-based analysis r eveals that strategically staging electric HPs with existing oil h eating systems can lower overall energy costs by 19 and reduce emissions by 29 compared to the today s system and outper- forms all-heat-pump strategy for economic savings. By comb ining a generalizable, community-centric assessment framework with data-driven case study insights, this work offers a practic al tool for utilities, community stakeholders and policymakers to work toward equitable and sustainable energy transitions. Index Terms Energy transition, Carbon emission, Heat pumps, Energy burden, Energy poverty, Techno-economic, Mi - crogrids I. I NTRODUCTION The global energy sector is undergoing a fundamental shift from fossil fuel-based systems toward decarbonized energy solutions in response to climate change, as outlined in the 2 015 Paris Agreement. Renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, and biomass are increasingly replacing traditional fossil fuel and nuclear power generation 1 . Over the past decade, Corresponding author: Jayashree Yadav. Jayashree Yadav and Mads Almassalkhi are with the College of Engineering and Mathematical Science; Gund Institute for E nviron- ment, University of Vermont, Burlington 05401, USA (e-mail : jya- dav uvm.edu;malmassa uvm.edu). Ingemar Mathiasson is Department of Energy, Northwest Arct ic Borough, Kotzebue 99752, Alaska, USA (e-mail:imathiasson nwabor. org). Bindu Panikkar is with Rubenstein School of the Environment and Natural Resources; Gund Institute for Environment, University of V ermont, Burlington 05401, USA. (e-mail:Bindu.Panikkar uvm.edu).research on green energy transitions has grown substantial ly, addressing the pace of transitions 2 , 3 , 4 , alternati ve pathways 5 , 6 , 7 , and the geographic dimensions of energy transitions 8 , 9 . Transition scenarios vary sig niﬁ- cantly across regions, particularly in extreme climates wh ere infrastructure, resource availability, and energy costs p resent unique challenges 9 . Remote northern integrated energy communities face dis- tinct technical, economic, and social barriers to adopting renewable energy 10 . These communities often rely on iso- lated diesel-powered microgrids, resulting in high electr icity costs, supply chain vulnerabilities, and carbon-intensiv e power generation 11 . Additionally, heating demand in such regi ons can be 1.5 to 2 times higher than electricity demand 12 , further increasing dependence on imported fuels. The extre me climate marked by extended summer daylight and prolonged winter darkness adds complexity to renewable deployment, storage strategies, and grid reliability. These unique con ditions require integrated assessment frameworks that consider no t only technical and economic aspects, but also environmenta l sustainability and social equity. To support effective decision-making, community-centric assessment frameworks that capture multi-sectoral intera ctions are essential 13 . Much of the existing literature focuses on techno-economic analysis of speciﬁc technologies, such as photovoltaic thermal systems 14 , electric vehicle charg ers 15 , or rooftop PV 16 . While informative, these studies o ften overlook broader environmental and social considerations . For example, 17 , 18 include environmental criteria but exc lude social dimensions, whereas 19 focus on socio-economic indicators without addressing grid performance. Though so me studies incorporate multiple dimensions, such as 20 , whi ch evaluates hybrid energy systems in Chad, they emphasize optimal sizing over real-time energy management and lack in - tegration of end-use technologies like heat pumps or demand - side ﬂexibility. Moreover, many analyses are simulation-b ased and not grounded in real-world data. Among the strategies for decarbonization, electriﬁcation of end-use sectors such as transportation and space heating plays a vital role. Heat pumps, in particular, offer signiﬁc ant potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while improvi ng energy efﬁciency 21 . Studies have shown their beneﬁts in reducing emissions 22 , 23 , enhancing grid ﬂexibilit y 2 ULWHULD VVHVVPHQW 6 VWHP 0RGHO (QHUJ ÁRZ PRGHO 2SWLPDO HQHUJ GLVSDWFK7UDQVLWLRQ SDWKZD V 7UDQVLWLRQ VFRUH7LPH VHULHV GDWD0XOWL ULWHULD HFLVLRQ QDO VLV 1RUPDOL DWLRQ 8WLOLW IXQFWLRQ7HFKQRORJLFDO ,QIUDVWUXFWXUH XSJUDGH 5HOLDELOLW (FRQRPLF 5HWDLO HOHFWULFLW UDWH (OHFWULFLW 6XEVLG YHUDJH HQHUJ FRVW (QYLURQPHQWDO 2 H HPLVVLRQ LU TXDOLW 6RFLDO (QHUJ EXUGHQ (QHUJ SRYHUW Fig. 1. Transition pathways assessment framework 24 , 25 , and lowering operational costs 21 , 26 . How- ever, widespread adoption also presents challenges, inclu d- ing high upfront costs, grid integration issues, and energy equity concerns 27 , 28 . Notably, many studies assume constant coefﬁcients of performance (COP) for heat pumps, which can misrepresent their performance in cold climates 22 , 23 , 25 . Recent ﬁndings underscore the importance of temperature-dependent COPs to accurately assess heatin g system economics and performance 29 . The key contributions of this manuscript to address theses research gsps are as follows: Develops a comprehensive techno-economic, environmental , and social (TEES) assessment framework to evaluate energy transition pathways that can integrate intelligent energy de- vices and optimization-based coordination of energy asset s. Applies the framework to a detailed case study of a remote community in Alaska, evaluating the TEES impacts of
__label__energy	2D Spintronics for Neuromorphic Computing with Scalability and Energy Efficiency Douglas Z. Plummer,1Emily D Alessandro,1Aidan Burrowes,1 Joshua Fleischer,1Alexander M. Heard,1and Yingying Wu 1 1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA. Abstract The demand for computing power has been growing exponentially with the rise of artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, and the Internet of Things (IoT). This growth requires unconventional computing primitives that prioritize energy efficiency, while also addressing the critical need for scalability. Neuromorphic computing, inspired by the biological brain, offers a transformative paradigm for addressing these challenges. This review paper provides an overview of advancements in 2D spintronics and device architectures designed for neuromorphic applications, with a focus on techniques such as spin-orbit torque, magnetic tunnel junctions, and skyrmions. Emerging van der Waals materials like CrI 3, Fe 3GaTe 2, and graphene-based heterostructures have demonstrated unparalleled potential for integrating memory and logic at the atomic scale. This work highlights technologies with ultra-low energy consumption (0.14 fJ operation), high switching speeds (sub-nanosecond), andscalability tosub-20nm footprints. It covers keymaterialinnovations and the role of spintronic effects in enabling compact, energy-efficient neuromorphic systems, providing a foundation for advancing scalable, next-generation computing architectures. Corresponding author: yingyingwu ufl.edu 1arXiv:2503.17376v1 physics.app-ph 13 Mar 2025 I. INTRODUCTION Neuromorphic computing represents a burgeoning approach to computational architecture and device synthesis. Aimed at capturing the human brain s efficiency, adaptability, and massive parallelism, neuromorphic computing devices differ from the conventionalvonNeumannarchitecturebyintegratingmemoryandcomputationinaunified framework (Fig. 1). In spintronic neuromorphic systems, critical material and device properties include low magnetic damping for energy efficiency, high spin polarization for improvedsignalfidelity, andstablemagneticanisotropytomaintaindataintegrity. Magnetic materials play a crucial role due to their fast switching speeds and non-volatility, which facilitate synaptic behavior and memory retention. As CMOS technology approaches the limitsofMoore sLaw, currentCMOS-basedsystemsfacesubstantialchallengesinscalability and power consumption. Further miniaturization is hindered by increased leakage currents and heat dissipation, reducing energy efficiency. Moreover, the von Neumann bottleneck, which separates computation and memory, imposes fundamental limits on processing speed and increases latency and power consumption. Neuromorphic computing addresses these issues by enabling data-intensive tasks like pattern recognition and sensory processing with significantly lower energy requirements. Among various material systems explored for neuromorphic devices, 2D materials, van der Waals (vdW) heterostructures, and spintronic phenomena have emerged as key enablers, offering unique advantages in scalability, energy efficiency, and novel device functionalities. 2D materials1such as semimetal graphene2, semiconducting WSe 23, superconducting NbSe 24andmagnetic CrI 35haveatomicallythinstructures withunique properties, including high electron mobility (1,000,000 cm2 V s), low switching current, and layer-dependent direct indirect band gaps. These features enable 2D materials to serve as active layers in devices that mimic the synaptic weighting seen in neural networks. For instance, MoS 2-based memristors have achieved ultrafast switching speeds ( 40 ns) and low power consumption ( 18 fJ per pulse), making them suitable for high-density neuromorphic networks6,7. Meanwhile, h-BN graphene heterostructures provide excellent retention and endurance, critical for stable neuromorphic operation7. The integration of 2D magnetic materials - 2D magnet, into vdW heterostructures allows for the creation of devices with enhanced functionality and scalability. These 2 Fig.1: Comparison between the traditional von Neumann architecture and neuromorphic computing architecture. The von Neumann model (left), made up of a separate memory and processingunit(CPU),wheredatashuttlingbetweenmemoryandcomputationcausesabottleneck, limitingspeedandenergyefficiency. Theneuromorphicarchitecture(right)mimicsbiologicalneural networks, integrating computation and memory within synaptic connections. The interconnected neuron layers (input, hidden, and output) enable parallel processing and event driven computation, significantly improving power efficiency and adaptability. Computing paradigms are enabled by 2D spintronic neuromorphic systems, which promise further enhancements in scalability and energy efficiency. heterostructures exhibit dangling-bond-free interfaces, which minimize scattering and enable efficient charge and spin transport, crucial for spintronic applications8. For example, graphene antiferromagnet heterostructures can help induce exchange splitting into graphene and enable long-range spin transport2. Similarly, spintronics leverages the spin of electrons rather than their charge, a key factor in achieving low-power synapse-based computation. Spintronic phenomena, such as magnetic tunnel junctions (MTJs), low current density-driven Skyrmion control, show great promise for neuromorphic computing. MTJs devices utilize tunneling magnetoresistance (TMR) to store and manipulate information. The integration of 2D materials like graphene electrodes reduces power consumption and enhances scalability9. Magnetic skyrmions, nanoscale spin vortices, can be manipulated experimentally to emulate synaptic plasticity while maintaining ultra-low power consumption (as low as 0.14 fJ per operation) and excellent scalability10. Materials such as Fe 3GaTe 2and MnSi have demonstrated room-temperature skyrmion stability, opening avenues for spin-based 3 neuromorphic computing in practical applications. 2D materials (such as graphene, TMDs, and MXenes) excel in scalability, high-speed operation, energy efficiency, and flexibility. These materials are particularly advantageous for low-power, high-speed operations and their integration into compact, flexible neuromorphic devices. In addition to sharing these benefits, 2D spintronics using 2D magnets offer unique advantages in memory storage, non-volatility, and stability. This makes them particularly well-suited for long-term data retention,energy-efficientmemoryoperations,andhighparallelism-keyfeaturesforadvanced neuromorphic computing systems. This review paper summarizes recent progress in the use of spintronics for neuromorphic computing, with a particular focus on the outlook and future directions for integrating 2D spintronic materials into neuromorphic hardware. It covers the fundamentals of neuromorphic computing, an overview of 2D spintronic materials, and existing spintronic devices and architectures, such as those based on MTJs and magnetic skyrmions. Additionally, it discusses the scalability and energy efficiency of current spintronic neuromorphic systems and explores potential applications of 2D spintronics in neuromorphic computing. II. FUNDAMENTALS OF NEUROMORPHIC COMPUTING Neuromorphic computing relies on two key principles11 13: spiking neural networks (SNNs)andsynapticplasticity. SNNsprocessdiscreteevents,orspikes,insteadofcontinuous signals, enabling asynchronous, event-driven information processing. This mechanism replicates the biological firing of neurons, where a spike occurs only when a threshold potential is reached. In SNNs, an output spike is generated only when the membrane potential exceeds a defined threshold. This event-driven mechanism allows for synchronous processing, where consumption occur only when necessary, reducing energy consumption14. As a result, SNNs have much lower idle power consumption compared to traditional artificial neural networks (ANNs). For example, second-generation networks like deep learning networks (DLNs) process real-valued signals continuously, whereas SNNs process binary events, achieving energy savings of up to 20 times in certain cases15,16. Synaptic plasticity refers
__label__energy	1 Power system investment optimization to identify carbon neutrality scenarios for Italy Alice Di Bella1,2,3 , Federico Canti1,2, Matteo Giacomo Prina1, Valeria Casalicchio1, Giampaolo Manzolini2, Wolfram Sparber1 1Institute for Renewable Energy, EURAC Research, Viale Druso 1, I -39100 Bolzano, Italy 2Dipartimento di energia, Politecnico di Milano, Via Lambruschini, 4, 20156 Milano (MI), Italy 3RFF-CMCC European Institute on Economics and the Environment (EIEE ), Centro Euro-Mediterraneo sui Cambiamenti Climatici, Italy E-mail : alicedb7 gmail.com Abstract In 2021 t he European Commission has adopte d the Fit -for-55 policy package, legally binding European countries to reduce their CO 2 emissions by 55 with respect to 1990 , a first step to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 . In this context it is crucial to help national policymakers to choose the most appropriate technologies to achieve these goals and energy system modelling can be a valuable tool. This article presents a model of the Italian power system realized employing the open energy modelling framework, Oemof. A Linear Programming Optimization is implemented to evaluate how to minimiz e system costs at decreasing CO 2 emissions in 2030 . The developed tool is applied to evaluate different research questions : i) pathway towards full decarbonization and power self - sufficiency of the electricity s ector in Italy, ii) relevance of flexibility assets in power grids: li -ion batteries , hydrogen storage and transmission lines reinforcement . A 55 CO 2 emissions reduction for the actual Italian power sector can be achieved through an increase of 30 of the total annual system cost. Full decarbonization can be reached with four times today s annual costs, which could be lowered with sector coupling or considering more technologies . Keywords Energy modelling, renewable energy sources, storage options, CO2 emissions reduction, 2030 scenarios, Italian electricity system, Linear Programming 1 Introduction The consequences of the increase in GHG emissions are getting to a tipping point and human activities are the flagship accountable for climate change . According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2021 report 1 , it is only possible to avoid warming of 1.5 C or 2 C if massive and immediate cuts in greenhouse gas emissions are made. Nevertheless, with the current measures, the World will experience a further temperature rise of 3 C 2 , far beyond the Paris Agreement objective of limiting the increase to 1.5 Celsius degrees 3 . The international community has joint efforts to fight this global challenge, promoting cooperation between countries and international climate policies to push a shift to a more sustainable global energy system. In this context, energy system models can help decision makers to shape efficiently their transition strategies : they can be crucial in the optimization of ambitious but necessary plans for future energy supply and demand in low -carbon systems and for increasing social acceptance of innovative policies and subsidies. The energy sector accounts for more than 73 of the global CO 2 equivalent emissions 4 , thus it is paramount to act in this area to abate the human impact on the environment. In this sector, the electricity field is crucial for CO 2 emission reduction, thanks to mature and well -known green technologies and the extensive know -how already delineated. This work models the Italian power system in 2030 , divided into 7 market zones and considering the whole year of electricity generation with an hourly resolution. An expansion capacity optimization, starting from the existing technologies helps evaluating the most convenient investment strategy for different degrees of decarbonizati on and highlighting crucial technologies which need to be enforced. This study has the purpose to highlight the most cost -effective and solid strategy to achieve the European decarbonization target of a 62 reduction of CO 2 emiss ions from the power sector 5 . Furthermore, reaching carbon neutrality is the leitmotif of the present paper, taking into account generation technologies such as onshore wind, rooftop and utility scale photovoltaics, in line with the Italian Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 6 . The model can invest in storage options like 2 batteries and hydrogen, with the possibility to enhance the transmission grid and blending hydrogen into the methane pipelines (Power -to-Gas). The GitHub repository 7 presents the code and inputs for the Oemof Italy model. Numerous papers in literature offer similar analyses, with different methodologies, resolutions and details. A similar approach to the energy policy, underlining pros and cons of the adopted transition protocols, is carried out by Mearns and Sornette 8 for the Swiss power system, analysing two months of generation in January and July 2050. The first interesting study in this literature review was carried out by Prina et al. 9 , coupl ing the Oemof framework with a multi-objective optimization (MOO), using an evolutionary algorithm to simulate the Italian energy system with six nodes without reaching the complete decarbonization of the energy system. Another study on the Italian energy system is conducted by Bellocchi et al. 10 , in this case with a single node. Hilpert et al. 11 applied linear programming (LP) for the Jordanian electricity system with a single -node approach and an hourly resolution. Herc et al. 12 employed the modelling tool H2RES to perform a linear optimization of the Croatian energy system, with hourly time steps and also considering sector coupling. Louis et al. 13 carried out a study of the European power system considering a multi - node scheme. They used a low temporal resolution (12 typical days), introducing some approximations that need to be quantified. In the work performed by Frysztacki et al. 14 an analysis of the European electricity system and the evaluation of the effects of high wind and solar penetration are inspected with a three -hour timesteps. Finally, Victoria et al. 15 conducted an insightful study of the European energy framework. Their research represents a multi -node network of 30 different nodes and considers an hourly temporal resolution. In this work, one of the key results is the development of a
__label__energy	Highlights The role of coal plant retrofitting strategies in developing India s net-zero power system: a data-driven sub-national analysis Yifu Ding, Dharik Mallapragada, Robert James Stoner A data-driven capacity expansion model for India s net-zero power system is built to explore retrofitting strategies for 806 coal plants by 2035. Four grid evolution scenarios are considered to model carbon capture and storage, biomass co-firing, and renewable energy integration. Coal plants with carbon capture could happen by 2035 when the carbon cap for power generation is less than 1,000 million tons. Renewable energy integration is cost-effective but could result in low utilization of coal plants and energy injustice issues.arXiv:2409.18981v1 physics.soc-ph 14 Sep 2024 The role of coal plant retrofitting strategies in developing India s net-zero power system: a data-driven sub-national analysis Yifu Dinga, Dharik Mallapragadab, Robert James Stonera aMIT Energy Initiative, 50 Ames St, Cambridge, 02142, Massachusetts, United States bDepartment of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Tandon School of Engineering, New York University, 726 Broadway, New York, 10003, New York State, United States Abstract India set two Nationally Determined Contribution targets to achieve the net-zero carbon emission goal by 2070, which requires deep decarbonization of India s power generation sector. Yet, coal power generation contributes to more than 60 of its total power generation, and policies still permit further coal fleet expansion and lifetime extensions. In this paper, we investigate the role of retrofitting India s coal plants for carbon capture and storage and biomass co-firing in developing the net-zero power system. We model the power generation and transmission network expansions across 30 Indian states in four representative grid evolution scenarios under progressively tighter carbon emission caps, taking into account sub-national coal price variation and thermal efficiency of individual coal plants. We find that coal plant retrofitting could happen by 2035 when an annual carbon cap for the power generation sector is less than 1,000 million tons CO2. This reduces the unabated coal plant capacity, electricity generation, and carbon abatement costs. Exploiting renewable energy potentials solely, such as wind resources, could reduce carbon abatement costs significantly but will result in low coal plant utilization and uneven renewable generation deployment between Southern and Central regions concerning energy justice. Keywords: India, Power system planning, Coal plant retrofitting, Carbon capture and storage, Carbon Policy 1. Introduction India is the third largest carbon emitter globally, with power generation accounting for over half of the total 1, 2 . India s energy demand is projected to double or triple by 2040 relative to the 2017 level 3 . Endeavoring to meet the global goal of holding warming well below 2 degrees relative to the pre-industrial level, India has committed to net-zero carbon emissions by 2070. Its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) targets include installing 500 GW of non-fossil-fuel energy generation capacity and reducing its economy-wide emission intensity by up to 45 by 2030 relative to 2005 level 4 . India s existing power generation heavily depends on high-emission coal plants. The total coal plant capacity reached 205 GW and generated more than 60 electricity generation in 2022 5 . The national government has not proposed comprehensive phase- out plans for coal plants to date, but rather will continue to permit new construction and lifetime extensions of existing coal plants 6 . The decommission of unabated coal Preprint submitted to Journal plants appears financially and technically infeasible. - This will lead to a great number of coal plants and mines closure with ensuing unemployment in coal-bearing regions 7 , along with declining firm power generating capacity in the face of the increasing summer peak electricity demand 6, 8 . These concerns have tended to slow the rate of decommissioning of old plants, especially in low-cost coal regions in the east, thereby perpetuating the carbon emission burden 9 . Previous studies 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 have assessed India s least-cost power system expansion in the next few decades until 2050, mainly focusing on the role of energy storage, renewable generation, and transmission capacity for carbon emission reductions. Nevertheless, these studies show coal plants will remain the main energy source and reserves by 2030. Barbar et al. 16 investigate the impact of increasing electricity demand on power system evolution from 2020 to 2050 based on a five-zone India power system. They conclude that deep decarbonization of India s power sector will require policy measures targeting the existing coal fleet and policies related to ac- celerating renewable deployment and demand-side reduction. Rose et al. 11 show that battery storage plays a crucial role in renewable generation integration, but supercriti- cal coal plants will be built and concentrated in the east, which accounts for over 90 of the total carbon emissions by 2047. Lu et al. 13 models India s power generation mix to achieve 80 of renewable penetration by 2040. Such a system requires a significant investment in energy storage and network expansion, and over 200 GW of coal plant fleet remains. Another research focus is effective carbon policies and renewable energy targets to decarbonize India s power system. Deshmukh et al. 14 model India s power system expansion in 2030 under varying renewable generation targets between 200 to 600 GW, with renewable projects selected based on their levelized electricity generation costs. They conclude that achieving high renewable energy targets will not avert the need to build coal plants. The avoided fossil fuel capacity and carbon abatement cost also change greatly with different shares of wind, solar, and renewable resource quality. Rudnick et al. 15 uses a five-zone India s power system model to optimize the power system planning in 2040 under tradable CO 2emission limits and renewable portfolio standards. Their results show that the tradable CO 2emission limits result in a lower average CO 2abatement cost than are achieved under a renewable portfolio standard. All these studies above have not considered the role of coal plant retrofits in decar- bonizing India s power system, even though the retrofitted coal plants as the low-carbon, firm generation resources could significantly contain
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	1 Stochastic Optimal Control of HV AC System for Energy-efﬁcient Buildings Yu Yang, Student Member, IEEE, Guoqiang Hu, Senior Member, IEEE, and Costas J. Spanos, Fellow, IEEE Abstract The heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HV AC) system accounts for substantial energy use in buildings, whereas a large group of occupants are still not actually feeling comfortable staying inside. This poses the issue of developing energy-efﬁcient HV AC control, i.e., reduce energy use (cost) while simultaneously enhancing human comfort. This paper pursues the objective and studies the stochastic optimal HV AC control subject to uncertain thermal demand (i.e., the weather and occupancy etc). Particularly, we involve the elaborate predicted mean vote (PMV) thermal comfort model in the optimization. The problem is computationally challenging due to the non-linear and non-analytical constraints imposed by the system dynamics and PMV model. We make the following contributions to address it. First , we formulate the problem as a Markov decision process (MDP) which is a desirable modeling technique capable of handling the complexities. Second , we propose a gradient-based learning (GB-L) method for progressively learning a stochastic control policy off-line and store it for on-line execution. Third , we prove the learning method s converge to the optimal policies the- oretically, and its performance (i.e., energy cost, thermal comfort and on-line computation) for HV AC control via simulations. The comparisons with the existing model predictive control based relaxation (MPC-R) method which is assumed with accurate future information and supposed to provide the near-optimal bounds, show that though there exists some performance loss in energy cost reduction (i.e., 6.5 ), the proposed method can enable efﬁcient on-line implementation (less than 1 second) and provide high probability of thermal comfort under uncertainties. Index Terms HV AC control, energy-efﬁcient, Markov decision process (MDP), stochastic policy, predicted mean vote (PMV). NOMENCLATURE Notations: t Time index. w The absorption coefﬁcient of walls. Ags The area of glass window m2 . Awl Awr The area of left right wall m2 . Cp The air speciﬁc heat J (kg K) . Cw The wall capacity J (kg K) . ct The electricity price s kW . This work is supported by the Republic of Singapore s National Research Foundation through a grant to the Berkeley Education Alliance for Research in Singapore (BEARS) for the Singapore-Berkeley Building Efﬁciency and Sustainability in the Tropics (SinBerBEST) Program. BEARS has been established by the University of California, Berkeley as a center for intellectual excellence in research and education in Singapore. Yu Yang is with SinBerBEST, Berkeley Education Alliance for Research in Singapore, Singapore 138602 e-mail: (yu.yang bears-berkeley.sg). Guoqiang Hu is with the School of Electrical and Electronic En- gineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 639798 e-mail: (gqhu ntu.edu.sg). Costas J. Spanos is with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, CA, 94720 USA email: (spanos berkeley.edu). The reciprocal of coefﬁcient of performance (COP) of chiller. Gfau t Gfcu t The supply air ﬂow rate of FAU FCU kg s 1 . Gfcu;rThe nominal air ﬂow rate of FCU kg s 1 . Gfau;rThe nominal air ﬂow rate of FAU kg s 1 . Gfau GfcuThe lower bound of damper position for FAU FCU kg s 1 . Gfau GfcuThe upper bound of damper position for FAU FCU kg s 1 . Ho t Ha t Outdoor indoor relative humidity . Hfau t Hfcu t Relative humidity of supply air by FAU FCU . hgs hw Heat transfer coefﬁcient of window walls J (m2 C) . maThe mass of indoor air kg . mwl mwrThe mass of left right wall kg . Ffcu;rThe nominal fan power of FCU kW . Ffau;rThe nominal fan power of FAU kW . Qo HgThe average internal heat humidity generation rate per occupant J s 1 . QdThe average heat generation rate of electrical devices per occupant J s 1 . Qw t Solar radiation density J m2 s . To t Ta t Outdoor indoor temperature C . Twl t Twr t The left right wall temperature C . Tfau t Tfcu t The set-point temperature of FAU FCU C . Tfau TfcuThe lower bound of set-point temperature of FAU FCU C . Tfau TfcuThe upper bound of set-point temperature of FAU FCU C . I. I NTRODUCTION HEATING, ventilation and air-conditioning (HV AC) sys- tem accounts for 40-50 of energy use in buildings for providing occupant comfort 1, 2 . Whereas a large group are still not actually feeling comfortable staying inside 3 . This negative situation is substantially attributed to the insensible operation of HV AC systems, such as settled on-off switch and ﬁxed thermostat settings, etc. Fortunately, the advances of information and communication technology (ICT) including smart sensing, data storing and processing technologies, are likely to turn it around 4 . Advanced HV AC control is expected for energy-efﬁcient buildings, i.e., reduce energy use (cost) while simultaneously enhancing human comfort 5, 6 . A. Literature The recent decades have seen massive progress towards im- proving building energy efﬁciency. Particularly, various mod- eling techniques have been established for optimizing HV AC control 7 . However, the system complexity anduncertainties are still two major challenges we are facing for realization. The HV AC system comprises various heat and mass transfer equipment such as the chiller, the heating cooling coils and the air-handling equipment, making the overall system dynamicsarXiv:1911.00840v3 eess.SY 4 Feb 2021 2 highly non-linear and non-convex 7 . Besides, the HV AC con- trol requires to respond to the uncertain thermal disturbances caused by the weather and the occupants, etc. To address the non-linearity, the typical solution methods include sequential quadratic programming (SQP) 8 , mixed- integer programming (MIP) 9, 10 and meta-heuristic al- gorithms (e.g., genetic algorithm 11 and particle swarm optimization 12 , etc.). These works have mostly focused on developing approximation or relaxation techniques to deal with the non-linear system dynamics. Besides, complete informa- tion or accurate predictions for dynamic thermal demand are usually assumed for computation (see 8, 10 for examples). However,
__label__energy	1 High-Fidelity Model of Stand-Alone Diesel Electric Generator with Hybrid Turbine-Governor Conﬁguration for Microgrid Studies Chinmay Shah, Student Member, IEEE, Mariko Shirazi, Member, IEEE, Richard Wies, Senior Member, IEEE, Phylicia Cicilio, Member, IEEE, Timothy Hansen, Senior Member, IEEE, , and Reinaldo Tonkoski, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Diesel electric generators are an inherent part of remote hybrid microgrids found in remote regions of the world that provide primary frequency response (PFR) to restore system frequency during load or generation changes. However, with inverter-based resources (IBR) integration into microgrids, the IBR control provides a fast frequency response (FFR) to restore the system frequency. Hence, supplementing PFR with FFR requires a sophisticated control system and a high ﬁdelity diesel electric generator model to design these control systems. In this work, a high-ﬁdelity model of a diesel electric generator is developed. Its parameters are tuned using a surrogate op- timization algorithm by emulating its response during a load change to a 400 kV A Caterpillar C-15 diesel generator, similar to those found in remote microgrids. The diesel electric generator model consists of a synchronous machine, DC4B excitation with V Hz limiter, and a proposed modiﬁed IEEE GGOV1 engine- governor model (GGOV1D). The performance of the GGOV1D is compared with simple, Woodward DEGOV , and a standard IEEE GGOV1 engine-governor model. Results show that error in the diesel electric generator s response to load changes using the GGOV1D model is lower with an improved frequency response during the arresting and rebound period than the other engine- governor models. Index Terms Diesel generator modeling, diesel governor, power system dynamics, power system stability, frequency sta- bility, model parameterization, microgrid. I. Introduction REMOTE islanded microgrids like those found in the Arctic and island nations are primarily powered by diesel This work is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy O ce of Science, O ce of Basic Energy Sciences, EPSCoR Program; O ce of Electricity, Microgrid R D Program; and O ce of Energy E ciency and Renewable Energy, Solar Energy Technology O ce under the EPSCoR grant number DE-SC0020281. Chinmay Shah is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engi- neering, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK, 99709 USA e-mail: cshah alaska.edu. Phylicia Cicilio is with Alaska Center for Energy and Power, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK, 99709 USA. Mariko Shirazi is with Alaska Center for Energy and Power, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK, 99709 USA. Richard Wies is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineer- ing, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK, 99709 USA. Timothy Hansen is with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, South Dakota State University, Brookings, SD, 57007 USA. Reinaldo Tonkoski is with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, South Dakota State University, Brookings, SD, 57007 USA.electric generators, with increasing contributions from inverter- based renewable resources like wind and solar photovoltaics (PV). There is signiﬁcant interest in adopting more renewable energy resources with the primary motivation of displacing imported fossil fuels to reduce the cost of electricity and heat 1 . The integration of inverter-based generators (IBR) reduces the system s inertia. IBRs can cause numerous stability issues such as a high rate of change of frequency (ROCOF) due to low inertia 2 4 and low-frequency oscillations introduced by the phase-locked loop. Detailed descriptions about these stability issues are presented in 4 7 . Also, accurate models of such hybrid systems are necessary to analyze the system s stability. While there has been much focus on high-ﬁdelity IBR models, it is just as important to have a high-ﬁdelity diesel electric generator model. The existing diesel electric generator models available in the literature are for small capacity diesel electric generators and not for hundreds of kilowatts hybrid microgrid scale diesel electric generators. Also, it was found that the existing diesel engine-governor models typically employed in the literature produce poor frequency response compared to our experimental data. Hence, the main focus of this work is to develop a high-ﬁdelity model of the diesel electric generator adapting the engine-governor model with improved frequency response during the arresting and rebound period that can be integrated with IBR models to study the inherent stability issues. Fig. 1. Comparison of grid frequency during load change with and without fast frequency response (FFR) 8 . Historically, diesel electric generators have provided pri- mary frequency response (PFR) during load changes in diesel- only microgrids. However, microgrids with diesel electric generators and IBRs have high ROCOF and can be improved by fast frequency response (FFR) provided by the frequency response control system of an IBR, as shown in Fig. 1. ThearXiv:2204.13894v1 eess.SY 29 Apr 2022 2 FFR is deﬁned as the contribution of electric power from the IBRs or energy storage that rapidly responds to the frequency changes to minimize the torque imbalance of the synchronous generators 8 , 9 . Hence FFR can supplement PFR to prevent an initial rapid decline in microgrid frequency during the arresting period and withdraw after the frequency nadir when PFR is su cient for restoring the frequency. However, this requires a coordinated control between the diesel governor action and the IBR controller. A high-ﬁdelity diesel electric generator model with accurate governor action is needed to design coordinated control systems as remote islanded microgrids continue to integrate more IBRs. A high-ﬁdelity diesel electric generator model is developed in this work with complete transient models of the electric machine, exciter, engine-governor, and other limiting com- ponents. The electric machine of a diesel electric generator is commonly modeled using standard synchronous machine models 10 , often simulated in MATLAB Simulink with a sixth-order state-space model, accounting for the stator, ﬁeld, and damper winding dynamics 11 . Numerous studies have used this model for transient simulations and have reported their model parameter values 12 19 . Now, nu- merous dynamic simulations of diesel electric generators have implemented simpliﬁed diesel genset models, often containing only one or two ﬁrst-order transfer functions to simulate the complete diesel electric generator system 20 22 . These
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	arXiv:2008.08939v1 eess.SY 20 Aug 20201 Distributed Vehicle Grid Integration Over Communication and Physical Networks Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Rahmat Poudineh, and Anupama Sen Abstract This paper proposes a distributed framework for vehicle grid integration (VGI) taking into account the comm uni- cation and physical networks. To this end, we model the elect ric vehicle (EV) behaviour that includes time of departure, tim e of arrival, state of charge, required energy, and its objectiv es, e.g., avoid battery degradation. Next, we formulate the centrali sed day ahead distribution market (DADM) which explicitly rep- resents the physical system, supports unbalanced three pha se networks with delta and wye connections, and incorporates t he charging needs of EVs. The solution of the centralised marke t requires knowledge of EV information in terms of desired ene rgy, departure and arrival times that EV owners are reluctant in providing. Moreover, the computational effort required to solve the DADM in cases of numerous EVs is very intensive. As such, we propose a distributed solution of the DADM clearing mechanism over a time-varying communication network. We illustrate the proposed VGI framework through the 13-bus, 3 3- bus, and 141-bus distribution feeders. Index Terms electric vehicle charging, unbalanced three phase network, distributed optimisation, uncertainty I. I NTRODUCTION A rapid increase in the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) has been recorded worldwide in the last years. This is partly due to emissions reduction goals, e.g., the UK has committed to reduce its emissions by 80 by 2050; and the decreasing prices of lithium ion batteries. However, there are several obstacles that need to be surpassed in order to promote a vast adaptation of EVs. In particular, the power consumption of typical household appliances, e.g., washing machines, ref rig- erators, is very different compared to that of an EV charger. It has been shown in 1 that an uncontrolled EV charging scheme would increase the peak national demand in the UK by 20 GW assuming all vehicles were electriﬁed. Moreover, the after diversity maximum demand in distribution systems at a house level increases by 1 kW with the integration of an EV 2 . These effects and the associated costs with upgradin g the electric power network (e.g., 3 ) may be mitigated if instead of uncontrolled charging, active charging techniq ues are used. In unidirectional active charging, EVs can modula te the charging power; and in the bidirectional case, EVs can also inject power back to the grid. We refer to the ﬁrst one as Vehicle Grid Integration (VGI) and the latter is known as Vehicle to Grid (V2G) 4 . VGI may be seen as an intermediate solution between uncontrolled charging and V 2G that requires less communication infrastructure. An addit ional beneﬁt of VGI is that it is more considerate towards the EV D. Apostolopoulou is with the Department of Electrical and E lectronic Engineering at City, University of London, London, UK EC1V 0 HB. E-mail: Dimitra.Apostolopoulou city.ac.uk R. Poudineh and A. Sen are with the Oxford Insti- tute for Energy Studies, Oxford, UK OX2 6FA. E-mail: Rahmat.Poudineh,Anupama.Sen oxfordenergy.orgbattery compared to V2G. Under a VGI framework EVs may offer services to the transmission system operator, distri bution system operator and facilitate the integration of renewabl e resources. For instance, EVs can offer peak shaving, power losses reduction, voltage regulation and frequency contro l in distribution systems (see, e.g., 5 7 ). The services that may be provided by an individual EV owner are small when compared to the large scale complex power system. However, an EV aggregator, who is in charge of operating the charging schedule of numerous EVs, may offer services to the grid ranging from kWs to MWs. In this paper we present a framework for a network-aware distributed VGI. More speciﬁcally, we propose a methodolog y to coordinate the services and operational constraints of t hree entities: the EV owner, the EV aggregator and the Distributi on system operator (DSO). Each of these players has a different objective and privacy concerns. To this end, we formulate an optimisation problem that represents the day ahead distrib ution market (DADM) where the EVs and the aggregator participate. We explicitly model the EV behavior in terms of time of arriva l and departure, required charging energy, and its objective s as well as the network constraints of an unbalanced three-phas e distribution system. A centralised structure of the DADM by the DSO requires knowledge of EV information that EV owners are reluctant in providing. In this regard, we propos e a distributed solution of the DADM clearing mechanism where the entities exchange limited insensitive information ove r a time-varying communication network, as is in reality, unti l they reach consensus. One challenge in this setting is that the aggregator would not be certain of the number of EVs available at a certain time instant, their state of charge an d available energy, their arrival and departure times. As suc h we propose a methodology to provide the aggregators with a given conﬁdence on the amount of capacity that they have available to participate in the market. In the numerica l results section, we use the proposed framework in large-sca le distribution feeders using realistic data for the EV behavi our and demonstrate its applicability and how it may be used by aggregators as well as DSOs for the system beneﬁt. Next, we discuss some relevant works in the literature which have also looked at the smooth integration of EVs in power systems. A thorough review of EV management schemes is given in 8 . Some studies have focused on modelling and control problems of EVs for valley-ﬁlling (e.g., 9 ), fre- quency regulation (e.g., 10 ), and facilitating the integ ration of renewable resources (e.g., 11 ). Charging algorithms a re categorised into two broad classes: centralised and decen- tralised approaches. In 12 a framework for centralised re al- time EV charging management from an EV aggregator that participates in the energy and regulation markets is develo ped. 2
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	Submitted to Applied E nergy 1 A Meta -learning based Distribution System Load Forecasting Model Selection Framework Yiyan Li , Si Zhang , Rongxing Hu , Ning Lu Electrical Computer Engineering Department, Future Renewable Electric Energy Delivery and Management (FREEDM) Systems Center, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27606 USA Abstract : This paper presents a meta -learning based, automatic distribution system load forecasting model selection framework. The framework includes the following processes: feature extraction, candidate model preparation and labeling, offline training, and online model recommendation. Using load forecasting needs and data characteristics as input features, multiple metalearner s are used to rank the candidate load forecast models based on their forecasting accuracy. Then, a scoring -voting mechanism is proposed to weights recommendations from each meta -leaner and make the final recommendations. Heterogeneous load forecasting tasks with different temporal and technical requirements at different load aggregation levels are set up to train, validate, and test the perform ance of the proposed framework. Simulation results demonstrate that the performance of the meta -learning based approach is satisfactory in both seen and unseen forecasting tasks. Keywords : distribution system, load forecasting, machine learning, meta -learning, model selection , ensemble learning . Scalar w One set of the Metalearner parameters C Binary variable in Similar Day (SD) model w Optimal set of the Metalearner parameters D Number of total features β1, β2, β3 Decay factors of the SD model iB Index of the LF model θ One set of the LF model parameters IB Number of LF models θ Optimal set of the LF model parameters iM Index of the metalearner 𝛾 Similarity between different days IM Number of metalearner s 𝜂 Accuracy of the metalearner j Index of the LF task Matrix vector J Number of LF tasks 𝐗𝑗 Input data for the jth LF task Kj Training data length of the jth LF task 𝐗𝑗𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Training data for the jth LF task KM Number of LF tasks for metalearner training 𝐗𝑗𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Testing data for the jth LF task m Index of the attribute 𝐲𝑗 Actual load for the jth LF task Mj Number of attributes for the jth LF task 𝐲𝑗𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Actual load for training in the jth LF task n Index of the input data 𝐲𝑗𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Actual load for testing in the jth LF task Nj Number of the input data for the jth LF task 𝐲 𝑗,𝑖𝐵𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Forecasted load by LF model i B on 𝐗𝑗𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 p Order of the AR part of the ARIMA model 𝐲 𝑗,𝑖𝐵𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Forecasted load by LF model i B on 𝐗𝑗𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 q Order of the MA part of the ARIMA model 𝐲 𝑛𝑒𝑤 Forecasted load for new LF tasks R Number of LF tasks requirement 𝐅 Features of a LF Task S Scores of the candidate LF model 𝐅𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Input f eatures to train the metalearner Tfore Index of forecasting day 𝐅𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Input features to test the metalearner Corresponding author. Tel.: 1 919-903-1199 ; E-mail address: yli257 ncsu.edu . Submitted to Applied E nergy 2 Thist Index of historical day 𝐅𝑛𝑒𝑤 Features of a new LF task 𝑇 Distance between T fore and T hist 𝚽 Actual best model 𝚽𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Actual best models to train the metalearner 𝐙(𝑖𝐵,𝑗) RMSE of LF model i B in the jth LF task 𝚽𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Actual best models to test the metalearner Functions 𝚽 𝑖𝑀𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Recommended models by i M on 𝐅𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 𝑓𝜃𝑖𝐵 LF model i B with parameter θ 𝚽 𝑖𝑀𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Recommended models by i M on 𝐅𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 𝑔𝑤𝑖𝑀 Metalearner iM with parameter w 𝚽 𝑖𝑀𝑛𝑒𝑤 Recommended models by i M on 𝐅𝑛𝑒𝑤 ℎ𝑖𝑀 Score -accuracy function of metalearner iM 𝚽 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 Recommended model after voting on 𝐅𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 ℒ𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 Loss function of the LF model 𝚽 𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 Recommended model after voting on 𝐅𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 ℒ𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑎 Loss function of the metalearner 𝚽 𝑛𝑒𝑤 Recommended model after voting on 𝐅𝑛𝑒𝑤 1. Introduction The needs for load forecasting (LF) have increased drastically at all levels in power distribution systems accompanied with the increasing penetration of the distributed generation resource (DER) 1 . In recent years, many LF models have been developed to solve distribution system LF problems, including but not limited to deep -learning based models 2 - 4 , probabilistic -forecasting models 5 - 7 and hybrid -forecasting models 8 - 9 . Different ensemble learning methods 10 - 12 have also been investigate d to further improve LF forecasting accuracy. Thus, for a given LF task, an optimal LF model can usually be found by comparing all exsiting methods. However, at different aggregation levels in a power distribution system, LF tasks for different application s may have very different temporal and technical requirements to meet. The integration of DERs, microgrids, and demand response programs also makes LF tasks an evolving process. Consequently, the need for selecting an optimal LF model is more frequent. How ever, very few research efforts have been focused on developing automated, credible, and robust LF model selection, the objective of which is to select the best LF model (or a few suitable LF models) for a given LF task specified by the characteristic avai lable data sets and LF requirements on a timely manner. Traditionally, the Knowledge -based expert system (KES) approach is used for selecting forecasting models 13 - 16 . The main disadvantage of the KES approach is inflexibility. Whenever new models are introduced or new forecasting scenarios are considered, a manual update of the system rules is required, making the maintenance costs high. Moreover, KES cannot be used for unseen LF tasks. Thus, the KES approach is inadequate for selecting an LF model in an active distribution network (ADN), where LF tasks are heterogeneous in terms of scale, input data characteristics, and LF requirements. In recent years, meta -learning 17 - 21 , generally interpreted as learning to learn , is introduced to provide mode l recommendations for different machine learning tasks. In 22 , Cui et al. propose to recommend proper LF models for different type of buildings, where the Artificial
__label__energy	1 Challenges and Opportunities for Bioenergy in Europe: National Deployment, Policy Support, and Possible Future Roles F. Wu1,2, , S. Pfenninger2 1 Climate Policy Group, Institute for Environmental Decisions, ETH Zürich, 8006, Zürich, Switzerland. 2 Faculty of Technology, Policy, and Management (TPM), Delft University of Technology, 2628 BX, Delft, The Netherlands. Corresponding author: fei.wu usys.ethz.ch ABSTRACT Bioenergy is currently a major renewable energy source in Europe but faces an unclear future because of conflicting modelling results and the lack of long-term policy. This paper identifies three challenges and potential opportunities by analysing bioenergy s historical national deployment, current policy support, and possible future roles in Europe. The first challenge is on the supply side. Calculating the supply-consumption dynamics and import dependency of EU bioenergy, we find that the security of bioenergy supply is challenging for liquid biofuels and those countries with the highest per-capita bioenergy consumption in Europe. Second, the definition of sustainable bioenergy in modelling studies is sometimes inconsistent with how EU policies label it. Third, on the demand side, there are unique but competing uses for bioenergy without a clear long-term strategy in Europe. We conclude with three opportunities to tackle these challenges for future research. First, utilising the untapped bioenergy potential with low environmental impacts could improve supply security. A clear and harmonised definition of sustainable bioenergy could better convey modelling results to policymaking. Finally, understanding where best to use limited sustainable bioenergy supply through sector-coupled energy system models can provide direction for a clearer EU bioenergy strategy towards 2050. Keywords: Bioenergy; decarbonisation; energy policy; scenarios; Europe 2 1. Introduction Bioenergy, that is, the use of biomass feedstocks to supply energy, has become a growing renewable energy source in Europe. It is used not only in heating and cooling (increasing from 66 to 90 of the total renewable heat from 1990 to 2018) but also for bio-blending transportation fuels and subsidised bioelectricity 1,2 . On the one hand, bioenergy is foreseen to play a role in the future EU energy system, including several 100 renewables scenarios in 2050 and the archetypal scenarios of IPCC SR1.5 3 5 . Recent studies have also argued that biomass could supply the final few percent of renewable electricity, enhancing the short-term supply-side flexibility thanks to its dispatchable ability 6,7 . Meanwhile, EU policy envisioned it to play a role in increasing EU energy self-sufficiency 8 . With the recent surging natural gas prices in Europe 9 , domestic biogas could be a potential substitute with higher resilience to international trade shocks. On the other hand, bioenergy is hotly contested because of questionable emissions neutrality its embodied emissions might be higher than those of fossil fuels when converting carbon sink into energy crops fields 10 . In addition, dedicated biomass can cause potential land-use conflicts between agriculture, forestry, and ecosystem restoration 11 13 . Hence, the contentious bioenergy has been excluded from some of the widely-cited energy systems modelling studies 14 16 . The latest EU Renewable Energy Directive II certification scheme introduces stricter sustainability criteria on all kinds of biomass by 2030 17 . Several European countries are also phasing out some national support for bioenergy (e.g., The Netherlands stopped subsidising biomass-fired power stations, and Switzerland banned transportation biofuel from mineral oil tax exemption as of 2020 18,19 ). Naylor and Higgins 20 argued that the rapid development of biodiesel would not have occurred without strong policy support, agricultural subsidies, and trade policies. Thus, the phased-out subsidies and stricter sustainability criteria may reduce bioenergy use in the near term, especially in transportation. All these interdisciplinary concerns over sustainability, policy, and energy systems planning are tangled together, adding to the unclear future of EU bioenergy. While there is a general expectation that bioenergy will continue to play some role in the EU s energy system, it is unclear whether that role will be a system-critical one and whether it can fulfil that role in an environmentally sustainable manner. Current literature has 3 generally explored the role of bioenergy from only one of these concerns (e.g., political frameworks 1 , economics and markets 21,22 , techno-economic modelling 23,24 , or the environment and economics 25 ). However, few studies have investigated the interaction between two or more concerns providing more comprehensive and interdisciplinary insights. Moreover, the challenges and opportunities of EU bioenergy development may lie beyond these isolated aspects, shaped by interactions among historical deployment, current policy, and possibilities identified in modelling studies. This paper intends to provide a more holistic picture of the status quo and potential of bioenergy in Europe, with a focus on these interactions. We consider not only the whole European region but also the national heterogeneity whenever necessary and possible. Although previous studies mostly investigated bioenergy deployment either on the whole EU level 23 or on single countries 26 28 , an EU-wide national breakdown is necessary. Because natural resource endowments, historical energy system structures, policies, and support schemes vary across member states. Such national heterogeneity may manifest different challenges and opportunities for bioenergy in Europe, hence providing local policymakers with varied implications. Here we perform such an assessment to examine EU bioenergy from three areas first, the spatiotemporal trends in terms of supply-consumption dynamics and energy security; second, EU level policies and national support schemes; third, unique roles for bioenergy discussed in the literature and modelled in decarbonisation scenarios for 2050. We conclude by synthesising challenges and opportunities for bioenergy in a fully renewable and sustainable European energy system. 2. Data and Methods Here we adopt the International Energy Agency s (IEA) classification and dataset of biofuels and waste for energy that is, world energy balance datasets, one widely-used database providing authoritative and up-to-date renewable energy statistics every year 2 . It includes major biofuels and waste for bioenergy, as shown in Figure 1, of which products are the finest level of available bioenergy data (e.g., solid biofuels, biogases, charcoal, industrial waste, etc.). Note that we do not intend to provide a detailed classification of all possible
__label__energy	arXiv:1803.06921v1 cs.SY 14 Mar 2018Approximating Flexibility in Distributed Energy Resources: A Geometric Approach Soumya Kundu, Karanjit Kalsi Optimization and Control Group Paciﬁc Northwest National Laboratory Richland, WA 99352 USA Email: soumya.kundu, karanjit.kalsi pnnl.govScott Backhaus Information Systems and Modeling Group Los Alamos National Laboratory Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA Email: backhaus lanl.gov Abstract With increasing availability of communication and control infrastructure at the distribution systems, it is e xpected that the distributed energy resources (DERs) will take an active part in future power systems operations. One of the main challenges associated with integration of DERs in grid planning and control is in estimating the available ﬂexibil ity in a collection of (heterogeneous) DERs, each of which may have local constraints that vary over time. In this work, we present a geometric approach for approximating the ﬂexibil ity of a DER in modulating its active and reactive power consumptio n. The proposed method is agnostic about the type and model of the DERs, thereby facilitating a plug-and-play approach, a nd allows scalable aggregation of the ﬂexibility of a collecti on of (heterogeneous) DERs at the distributed system level. Simu lation results are presented to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method. Index Terms Demand response, load aggregation, Minkowski sum, polynomial optimization. I. I NTRODUCTION Traditionally the bulk of the responsibility of maintain- ing the (real-time) balance between load and generation has rest upon the conventional generators, e.g. spinning reser ves, which provide various forms of grid ancillary services such as inertia support, regulation and ramping. As the power syste ms transition towards a greener grid with larger penetration o f renewable generation, a large fraction of which is expected to be distributed , there is a general consensus that various forms of distributed energy resources (DERs), including ﬂe x- ible and responsive electrical loads, need to be coordinate d and controlled in real-time to provide grid support. This requires an appropriate understanding of the loads behavio r, including their physical models, at the details useful for r eal- time coordination. It is important that such models capture the necessary information, such as the associated dynamics (thermal dynamics of a residential air-conditioner), meas ure of the available ﬂexibility (reactive power capacity of a gr id- connected inverter), the end-user constraints (desired st ate- of-charge of an electric vehicle battery), etc., while bein g tractable for real-time operation. This work was supported by the United States Department of En ergy under the Grid Modernization Lab Consortium initiative.Modeling of an ensemble of ﬂexible loads for ancillary services (in particular, frequency regulation and ramping ) have been explored in the literature in recent years 1 8 . The methods proposed in these articles are applicable to ensemb les of similar loads (albeit with heterogeneous parameters), s uch as a collection of residential air-conditioners, or a colle ction of plug-in electric vehicles. Such types of aggregate ﬂexib ility models are suitable for a transmission system operator whic h views the net demand ﬂexibility available at the distributi on- level as a lumped-model. Aggregation at this level (tens of thousands of loads) do not explicitly take into account the operational constraints (line-ﬂow and voltage limits) at t he mid low-voltage distribution systems. As the fraction of ﬂ exi- ble loads increase, however, chances of violation of operat ional constraints due to control of ﬂexible demand will increase. In order to efﬁciently coordinate tens of thousands of ﬂexible loads in distribution systems, while also satisfyi ng line-ﬂow and node voltage constraints, hierarchical model ing and control frameworks 9 , 10 become attractive. Load aggregators, referred to as aggregate device controller (or ADC), help in keeping the size of control problem tractable by aggregating the neighboring DERs locally. This aggregat ion can be done at the level of a couple of service transformers (tens of residential customers). It is the responsibility o f the ADC to capture the aggregated ﬂexibility, in terms of active and reactive power, of the local DERs which are likely to be of different types (e.g. a collection of air-conditioner s, electric water-heaters, batteries, solar photovoltaic in verers wind inverters) and ratings. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section II we describe the problem of aggregating ﬂexibility of hetero ge- neous DERs. Section III presents some key concepts that form the basis of our work. In Section IV we discuss in details the geometric programming approach to the aggregation of ﬂexibility, while exploring the metrics of quality of appro xi- mation in Section V. Numerical results illustrating the con cept are presented in Section VI, before concluding the article i n Section VII. II. P ROBLEM DESCRIPTION Consider a hierarchical distribution system operation fra me- work in which a distribution system operator (DSO) com- municates with aggregate device controllers (ADCs) at ever y control period and solves an optimal dispatch problem to schedule the DERs. It is assumed that the ADCs are so placed that the operational constraints (line-ﬂow and volt age limits) are trivially satisﬁed at the ADC-level. The primar y responsibilities of the ADC are two-fold: 1) before the star t of each control period (5-15 min), the ADC estimates the net ﬂexibility (in active and reactive power) available among t he DERs under its control, and exchanges that information to th e DSO; 2) during the control period, the ADC coordinates the DERs in real-time to track the active and reactive power set- points dispatched by the DSO. In this paper we restrict our discussion only on the ﬁrst part, i.e. the problem of estimat ing the net ﬂexibility in a group of (dissimilar) DERs. For the purpose of this article, any energy (consuming or generating) resource which offers certain ﬂexibility in ac tive (p) and or reactive ( q) power, possibly over a reasonably short time window (such as a 5-15 min long control period), is considered as a DER. We use the notation Fto represent the ﬂexibility domain as a collection of (p,q)-points that are physically admissible
__label__energy	1 Global GIS -based potential analysis and cost assessment of P ower-to-X fuels in 2050 Maximilian Pfennig1,a, Diana Böttgera, Benedikt Häcknera,b, David Geigera, Christoph Zinka, André Bisevica, Lukas Jansena,b a Fraunhofer Institute of Energy Economics and Energy System Technology IEE, Joseph -Beuys -Str. 8 , 3411 7 Kassel, Germany b Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Kassel, Wilhelmshöher Allee 73, 34121 Kassel, Germany Abstract Electricity -based fuels from renewable energies are regarded as a key instrument for climate protection . These Power -to-X (PtX) products are to replace fossil fuels in sectors where direct use of electricity from renewable energies is not possible . We investigate the production potential of electricity -based fuels from onshore wind energy and ground -mounted photovoltaic energy for all countries outside the European Economic Area along 14 PtX production pathways. These include hydrogen (gas eous and liquid), methane (gaseous and liquid), methanol , Fischer -Tropsch fuels and ammonia each with two different electrolysis technologies . The technical and economic potential assessment is based on data with hourly temporal and high spatial resolution . The analysis considers various criteria, including prevailing weather conditions, sustainability as well as nature conservation concerns and land use. The results show the production quantities and costs of climate -friendly fuel production under strict sustainability criteria and locate them spatially . It is shown that many regions of the world are well suited to produce PtX products . The production quantity outside Europe is up to 1 20,000 TWh LHV yr of hydrogen or 8 7,000 TWh LHV yr of electricity -based liquid fuels in the long term. We identify 97 countries with potentials , of which 38 countries possess relevant potentials of more than 100 TWh LHV yr. The largest suita ble areas are in the United States , Australia and Argentina . The production costs vary a lot across the different regions. The lowest production c osts for PtX generation are in Latin America ( Chile, Argentina and Venezuela ) and Mauritania with a lower limit of 42.3 MWh LHV to 46 .5 MWh LHV for gaseous hydrogen and 84 MWh LHV to 89 .1 MWh LHV for Fischer - Tropsch fuels. All best sites are pure wind or combin ed wind and photovolta ic sites. Moreover, we show import options of these PtX products to Europe considering socioeconomic factors and different transport options. All investigation results are freely accessible via the Global PtX Atlas on https: maps.iee.fraunhofer.de ptx -atlas . Keywords Power -to-X; global analysis; cost optimi sation ; GIS-based potential analysis; hydrogen; E-fuels; ammonia 1 Corresponding author: maximilian.pfennig iee.fraunhofer.de 2 Graphical Abstract z Excluded areas Considered areas Data Models Results Spatial Weather Parameter 0100200300400500 0100200300400500 0 24 48 72 96 120 144 168 192 Fuel output in MW LHVPower in MW el Time in hour of the yearWind PV Battery discharging Electrolysis (electrical) DAC (electrical) PtX fuel (right axis)Powered byesri 3 1. Role of PtX fuels in the energy transition In response to the Paris Agreement of 2015 1 , the European Commission s ambition is to make Europe the first climate -neutral continent by 2050 2 . This requires a c omprehensive conversion of the energy supply system to replace the use of fossil fuels . Today, fossil fuels are imported in large quantities. In the future, these energy quantities should no longer come from fossil fuels, but a supply without imports from non-European regions nevertheless seems unavoidable, as 3 already expects for the year 2030. Electricity -based fuels2 from renewable energies are to replace fossil fuels where the direct use of electricity from renewable energies is not possible. Steel manufacturers, for example, can use hydrogen instead of coal. Synthetic fuels may replace kerosene or heavy oil and diesel in aviation and shipping. Dispatchable power plants (e.g. gas turbines) needed for a secure power supply can be operated with synthetic natural gas or hydrogen instead of fossil fuel s. The synthetic production of electricity -based fuels enables a net - neutral decarbonisation of these sectors and thus offers a major opportunity to implement an almost greenhouse gas -neutral energy system. Since the production of Power -to-X (PtX) fuels is very energy -intensive and involves high losses even with future efficiency improvements, production only appears to make economic sense in regions with favourable renewable energy resources and corresponding land availability. For countries that have such potential in large quantities and beyond their own needs, PtX fuels open the door to an attractive future market in the transformation process. For the transportation sector alone, global PtX requirements are assumed to be at least 10,000 TWh yr 4 up to 3 5,000 TWh yr 5 and even higher , as fossil fuel industry stakeholders such as 6 claim . For Europe, 7 assume between 792 TWh yr and 1 ,782 TWh yr for the transport sector and up to 3 ,102 TWh yr if all sectors are consid ered. For Germany, an evaluation of the Big 5 climate neutrality studies in 8 shows a demand for PtX between 215 TWh yr and 657 TWh yr. In recent years , the analysis of potentials and future costs of PtX fuels has received increasing attention , and several stud ies have been published . These studies vary considerably in their regional and t emporal scope , the technologies and PtX products consider ed. Table 1 gives an overview of the most important characteristics found in the literature . The temporal scope of the related literature spans from the short - to the long-term perspe ctive. Some studies even model path ways from today to 2050. The regional scope is also quite heterogeneous . Some studies focus on single countries , see 9 or 10 for Argentina , while others conduct the analys is on a global level 11 or 12 . Many authors put the focus on promising regions such as the MENA3 region (e.g. 13 , 14 , 15 or 16 ). Concerning the power s ources for
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	An Approach to State Signal Shaping by Limit Cycle Model Predictive Control? Carlos Cateriano Y a nez ; ; Gerwald Lichtenberg Georg Pangalos Javier Sanchis S aez Life Sciences, Hamburg University of Applied Sciences, Germany (email:fcarlos.caterianoyanez;gerwald.lichtenberg g haw-hamburg.de). Fraunhofer Institute for Silicon Technology ISIT, Germany (e-mail: georg.pangalos isit.fraunhofer.de). Instituto U. de Autom atica e Inform atica Industrial, Universitat Polit ecnica de Val encia, Spain (email: jsanchis isa.upv.es). Abstract: A novel nonlinear model predictive control approach for state signal shaping is proposed. The control strategy introduces a residual shape cost kernel based on the dynamics of circular limit cycles from a supercritical Neimark-Sacker bifurcation normal form. This allows the controller to impose a fundamental harmonic state signal shape with a speci c frequency and amplitude. An application example for harmonic compensation in distribution grids integrated with renewable energies is presented. The controller is tasked with the calculation of the reference current for an active power lter used for load compensation. The results achieved are successful, reducing the harmonic distortion to satisfactory levels while ensuring the correct frequency and amplitude. Keywords: Nonlinear predictive control, optimal control theory, optimal operation and control of power systems, modeling and simulation of power systems, control system design. 1.INTRODUCTION Typically, model predictive control (MPC) algorithms are used for reference following control problems, due to their handling of constraints and e cient solving methods in the linear case (Maciejowski, 2002). However, there are applications where the state dynamics need to preserve a certain shape, rather than following a reference over time, e.g. multiple robots formation coordination in robotics (Egerstedt and Hu, 2001). These kinds of problems in the signal processing area are often referred to as signal shaping (Brandonisio and Kennedy, 2014). Recently, an MPC approach was developed for linear state signal shaping in Cateriano Y a nez et al. (2018). The proposed controller was used to mitigate the harmonic distortion in an electric grid by de ning a harmonic linear shape class to control the shape of the system states. While the frequency and shape were controlled, the amplitude of the signals was out of reach, due to the linear limitation of the shape class. An extension to this approach as a quadratic program is presented by Weihe et al. (2020), where the amplitude is successfully constraint but not set to the desired value. This paper proposes a limit cycle model predictive control (LCMPC), a nonlinear MPC approach that aims to directly control the amplitude using a limit cycle kernel as a nonlinear shape class, while also maintaining the correct shape and frequency. ?This contribution was partly developed within the project NEW 4.0 (North German Energy Transition 4.0) which is funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic A airs and En- ergy (BMWI).The LCMPC in contrast to a standard tracking MPC, does not require a time varying-reference to be calculated a priori for the optimization. For the LCMPC, the reference is the limit cycle autonomous system, which is embedded into the cost function, thus dynamically generated within. This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces periodic orbits, particularly limit cycles. In section 3, the LCMPC is developed. Section 4 gives an application example for harmonic compensation. Finally, section 5 draws conclusions. 2.PERIODIC ORBITS Consider a non-constant solution x(t) of a dynamical system. Such a solution is considered to be periodic if there is a constant T 0, such that x(t) x(t T)8t, (1) where the minimum possible Tis the period. The im- agex(t)of the periodicity interval 0;T is called a periodic orbit (Ivancevic and Ivancevic, 2007). The following subsections will further explore the properties of periodic orbits of special interest. Subsection 2.1 intro- duces the concept of limit cycles. This concept is further extended for maps in subsection 2.2. Finally, subsection 2.3 introduces a special case of the limit cycle which is the base for the proposed control concept. 2.1 Limit cycles A periodic orbit on a plane is called a limit cycle , if for some point that is not on the periodic orbit, the limit setarXiv:2012.02697v1 eess.SY 4 Dec 2020 is exactly , as time goes forward towards 1, known as!-limit set; or backward towards 1, known as - limit set (Ivancevic and Ivancevic, 2007). This concept is exempli ed by the following system. Given the vector eld dx1 dt c cx1 !x2 cx1 x2 1 x2 2 , (2a) dx2 dt !x1 c cx2 cx2 x2 1 x2 2 , (2b) wheref c; c;!g 2R 0are parameters of the system in(2). There is a periodic orbit of circular shape that arises from the system (Guckenheimer and Holmes, 1983). This behavior becomes evident when transforming (2)to polar coordinates dr dt cr c r2 , (3a) d dt !, (3b) where the role of the parameters can be easily identi ed, being can intensi er parameter, cthe square radius of the circular orbit, and !the angular frequency inrad s. An example with all the system parameters set to 1 is shown in the phase portrait in Fig. 1. From the vector eld, an unstable equilibrium at the origin and a stable circular limit cycle of radius 1 arise. The limit cycle is stable because all the system parameters are elements of R 0, which leads to a supercritical Hopf bifurcation normal form (Guckenheimer and Holmes, 1983). Fig. 1. Super critical Hopf bifurcation normal form phase portrait with c c ! 1 The appearance of the Hopf bifurcation, also known as thePoincar e-Andronov-Hopf bifurcation, occurs when the stability of an equilibrium point in a continuous-time dynamical system changes via a pair of purely imaginary eigenvalues. Hence a limit cycle arises. The bifurcation can be supercritical or subcritical, leading to a stable or unstable limit cycle respectively (Ivancevic and Ivancevic, 2007). The normal form used is away from the bifurcation point c 0. This region of attraction of the limit cycle is of special interest in the context of harmonic shape control. Byformulating a controller that imposes these dynamics into a second-order plant, it could drive
__label__energy	Advanced Load Shedding for Integrated Power and Energy Systems Bang L. H. Nguyen Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY, USA bangnguyen ieee.org Tuyen Vu Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY, USA tvu clarkson .edu Colin Ogilvie Center for Advanced Power Systems Florida State University Tallahassee, FL , USA cmo15d my.fsu.edu Harsha Ravindra Center for Advanced Power Systems Florida State University Tallahassee, FL , USA ravindra caps.fsu.edu Mark Stanovich Center for Advanced Power Systems Florida State University Tallahassee, FL , USA stanovich caps.fsu.edu Karl Schoder Center for Advanced Power Systems Florida State University Tallahassee, FL , USA schoder caps.fsu.edu Michael Steurer Center for Advanced Power Systems Florida State University Tallahassee, FL , USA steurer caps.fsu.edu Charalambos K onstantinou Center for Advanced Power Systems Florida State University Tallahassee, FL , USA ckonstantinou fsu.edu Herbert Ginn Electrical Engineering Department University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC ginnhl cec.sc.edu Christian Schegan Naval Surface Warfare Center Philadelphia christian.schegan navy.mil Abstract This paper introduces an advanced load shedding algorithm to improve the operability performance of a medium voltage direct current (MVDC) integrated shipboard power and energy system. Outcomes are compare d to a baseline algorithm while considering power generation contingency scenarios. The case study is conducted with a real -time, embedded algorithm implementation using a control hardware -in-the-loop (CHIL) setup. Index Terms Control evaluation, Integrat ed power and energy systems, Controller Hardware -in-the-Loop. I. INTRODUCTION A. Shipboard Power System Architecture s Toward the development of all -electric ship s, shipboard power system s (SPS) become fundamental and attract more research efforts. To guide the technology development process of SPS, the Navy has released the Naval Power and Energy Systems Technology Development Roadmap 1 . This roadmap builds on the integrated power and energy system s (IPES) for improved capabilities and reduced life cycle costs . IPES incorporates power generation, distribution, conversion, and energy storage modules along with novel controls to provide loads with the desired power quality 2 . Both Medium Voltage Alternating Current (MVAC) and Medium Voltage Direct Current (MVDC ) configurations can be employed in an IPES . While AC based options have traditionally dominated naval power systems , DC solutions promise to deliver improved flexibility and controllability . Thanks to developments in solid -state power electron ics, MVDC components and systems could potentially offer the increase d power density and efficiency compared to MVAC systems . Moreover, the need to incorporate multiple high- power , high -ramp rate load demands , power electronics based MVDC system s potentially provide the desired advantages 3 . MVDC system s can directly supply loads that operate at the DC voltage levels without extra power conditioning equipment . Also , the integration of Energy Storage Systems (ESS) can be more manageable than in MVAC , making the MVDC architectures the most suitable configuration s for future electric ships 4 . In order to facilitate control development s, SPS architecture s should be designed, evaluated , and validated in the early stage 5 , 6 . To compare the merits of IPES architecture s, the Electric Ship Research and Development Consort ium (ESRDC) has developed and implemented a real- time simulation testbed for notional multi -zone SPS of 12 kV MVDC and 13.8 kV 60 Hz MVAC . These models are validated under several real-time simulation platforms 7 . B. Control s Evaluation Framework (CEF) To accomplish electric ship missions, a n MVDC -based IPES requires thorough coordination of managements and controls from the system to the component level and referred to as Automated Power and Energy Management Systems (APEMS) . In the early -stage design, various control and management algorithms are designed, tested , and c ompared. This process of control s evaluation is critical to guarantee the system s efficiency, resilience, and reliab ility. Through the control s evaluation process , the best system designs, operational procedures can be verified . At the core of this capability demonstration process is the Controller Hardware -in- Loop (CHIL) approach . Following the implementation of a real-time simulation testbed for notional multi -zone SPS 7 , the ESRDC has initiated the controls evaluation framework (CEF) to su pport development and evaluation of shipboard power system controls 8 . The framework w as used here in testing the controls developed , and it facilitates the evaluation of benefits through a largely automated approach . Based on prior accomplishments 9 , the ESRDC has established notional MVDC and MVAC SPS real -time simulation models with baseline controls via a CHIL based environment. The baseline controls provide a known, consistent, initia l state for comparison and further evaluations. The evaluation process further supports incorporat ion of additional impacts such as communication conditions as described in 10 . This paper present s a case study for load shedding controls evaluation. An advanced load shedding algorithm was developed with an optimization -based method. The algorithm is evaluated and com pared with a baseline algorithm , a rule - based load shedding method against a power generation contingency scenario under a ship mission using the developed metrics in the CEF. The remaining parts of this paper are organized as follows: In Section II, basel ine and advanced load shedding algorithms are presented. Section III details the results, evaluations, and comparisons of the studied load shedding versus the baseline one. Finally, Section IV concludes the paper with suggestions for future works . II. MISSION -BASED LOAD SHEDDING CONTROL This section present s the problem formulation of load shedding control s. Load shedding is crucial to balance the supply and demand of power in the event of the loss of generation and the load demand is higher than the generation capacity. The load shedding strategy determine s which loads should be curtailed while maximizing the overall benefit of the entire system. The continuity of service to loads to fulfill a missi on is more important than , for example, the power loss or fuel -efficiency . A. Baseline Load Shedding Control The
__label__energy	The Role of Net-Zero Energy Residential Buildings in Florida s Energy Transition: Economic Analysis and Technical Benefits Hamed Haggi, James M. Fenton aFlorida Solar Energy Center, University of Central Florida, Cocoa, Florida, USA Abstract Net-zero emission policies, coupled with declining costs of renewables, battery storage, and electric vehicles, require both direct and indirect electrification (such as green hydrogen) of the energy infrastructure to address climate change impacts, improve resilience, and lower energy expenses. In this paper, a comprehensive techno-economic analysis was performed that integrated net-zero energy buildings within the context of Florida s energy transition by the year 2050. The analysis compares the monthly cost savings of owning photovoltaic (PV) on the roof, battery storage, and Electric Vehicle (EV) to the cost of buying electricity from the grid for both existing and newly built Orlando homes. The impact of income tax credits (ITC) and energy e fficiency improvements on monthly savings was taken into account. The levelized cost of electricity for residential PV and PV battery systems was determined and extended to provide a cost equivalent to gasoline for an average EV . Rooftop solar fueling an EV for 10,000 miles saves 100 per month over purchasing gasoline. Today, Florida residents can save on their monthly costs of electricity and gasoline if they have both PV on their roof and a battery system (sized for average daily residence load), and benefit from the federal ITC. Florida residents can cost-e ffectively transition to their own solar, battery storage, and electric vehicle to home systems. Allowing utility-scale solar to be used for on-site EV fast-charging and hydrogen production through electrolysis for fuel cell vehicles or blending with natural gas, minimizing the need for electricity transmission and distribution costs across the power grids. Keywords: Battery Energy Storage, Cost-Benefit Analysis, Electric Vehicles, Florida, Hydrogen Cost, Net-Zero Energy Buildings, PV, Residential Solar 1. Introduction The global energy system currently accounts for approximately 75 of greenhouse gas emis- sions, making it a pivotal factor in addressing society s greatest challenge: averting the worst effects of climate change 1 . Achieving Net Zero Emissions (NZE) by 2050, which is essential to limit the long-term increase in average global temperatures to 1.5 C 2 3 , necessitates a com- prehensive transformation in how to produce, transport, and consume energy in both the United Email address: hamed ucf.edu, jfenton fsec.ucf.edu (Hamed Haggi, James M. Fenton) Preprint submitted to Elsevier December 7, 2023arXiv:2312.03137v1 eess.SY 5 Dec 2023 Figure 1. Florida net energy consumption considering electrical system losses. States and the state of Florida. This transformation calls for a concerted e ffort to advance clean energy technologies throughout the decade leading up to 2030. While there has been promising growth in renewable energy over the past two decades moving towards a decarbonized society, significant challenges persist in achieving substantial penetration into the grid-based energy mar- ket. Despite improvements in Florida s building energy e fficiency through the adoption of more stringent energy codes, the building sector continues to be a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions. These challenges encompass: 1) Ensuring resiliency and security as solar capacity is integrated into the grid; 2) Establishing the value proposition of energy storage; 3) Ensuring highly reliable and secure interconnection of solar energy resources; 4) Optimizing the performance and durability of solar and energy systems; 5) Harnessing the benefits of vehicle electrification for grid interactions; 6) Enhancing building energy performance; 7) Facilitating the introduction of technological innovations to the market; and 8) Developing a skilled workforce for the energy industry. In 2020, Florida s net end-use energy consumption across the Residential, Commercial, In- dustrial, and Transportation sectors totaled 809 TWh, with 242 TWh attributed to electricity retail sales. The overall energy losses within the electrical systems of these sectors amounted to 373 TWh, resulting in a combined end-use energy consumption of 1,182 TWh 4 . Figure 1 shows the breakdown of Florida s electricity retail sales, fossil fuel energy usage, and electric system losses for each of these sectors, both in TWh and as a percentage of the total end-use energy consump- 2 45.0 10.6 18.5 Figure 2. Florida baseline final energy demand vs. 100 renewable scenario. tion. Notably, the e fficiency of electric utility delivery to these sectors was only 40 , calculated as 242 (242 373) in TWh. In the transportation sector, fossil fuel consumption reached 415.2 TWh, with only 0.1 TWh attributed to electric consumption. A mere 21 was e ffectively utilized for vehicle mileage. Unfortunately, Florida s Residential 203.1 TWh of electric systems losses exceeded the 153.4 TWh of residential sector electricity consumption. Replacing this 153.4 TWh of residential electricity with on-site solar energy generation and battery energy storage, Florida preserves the current residential electricity usage, has reliable backup power, and also eliminates the 364.5 TW of residential electric system losses. There have been several global studies that have outlined pathways to achieve net-zero carbon dioxide emissions or 100 renewable energy by 2050. However, many of these studies lack the level of detail, necessary for infrastructure and policy planning at the state level. Jacobson et al. in 5 explored the grid stability in the US after transitioning all sectors, including electricity production, transportation, buildings, and industrial energy, to 100 renewable electricity. The authors also provided data specific to Florida as supplementary material for their paper. The main results for transitioning Florida to 100 Renewables over business as usual were found to be: 326 TWh of utility photovoltaic (PV), 115 TWh of rooftop PV , 100 grid stability at low cost; creation of 393,000 more long-term, full-time jobs than lost; saving of 2,840 lives from air pollution per year in 2050; elimination of 283 million tons-CO2 per year in 2050; reduction in 2050 all-purpose, end-use energy requirements by 52.8 (430 TWh instead of 908 TWh); reduction in 2050 annual energy costs by 55.6 (from 102.4 to 45.4 B y); reduction in annual energy, health, plus climate costs by 84.7 from 298 to 45.4 B y; while requiring 1.37 of Florida land
__label__energy	1 Tri-Level Model for Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems Eghbal Hosseini1 Abstract In practical scenarios, addressing real-world challenges often entails the incorporation of diverse renewable energy sources, such as solar, energy storage systems, and greenhouse gas emissions. The core purpose of these interconnected systems is to optimize a multitude of factors and objectives concurrently. Hence, it is imperative to formulate models that comprehensively cover all these objectives. This paper introduces tri-level mathematical models for Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems (HRESs), offering a framework to concurrently tackle diverse objectives and decision-making levels within the realm of renewable energy integration. The proposed model seeks to maximize the efficiency of solar PV , enhance the performance of energy storage systems, and minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Index Terms Tri-Level Optimization Problems; Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems. I. I NTRODUCTION In the realm of optimization, meta-heuristic algorithms have garnered significant attention as versatile tools applicable across a spectrum of domains demanding efficient optimizers 1 10 . Complementarily, heuristic algorithms have also captured substantial interest as optimization tools in diverse applications that necessitate efficient optimizers 11 27 . The collective exploration of these algorithmic approaches reflects the expansive and evolving landscape of optimization techniques in addressing complex challenges across various disciplines 28 40 . In recent times, there has been a remarkable upswing in the advancement of various formulations specifically designed for modeling HRES. These cutting-edge formulations and mathematical models have been extensively documented in a wide range of references 41 49 . Furthermore, there has been a proliferation of varied methodologies aimed at optimizing HRES 50 56 . The tri-level optimization problem is characterized by the presence of three distinct levels of objectives, each with its own set of constraints. Researchers have made several endeavors to formulate tri-level optimization problems across various applications, as evidenced by a range of studies spanning from 57 65 . This multifaceted problem structure necessitates a nuanced approach, and the literature reflects ongoing efforts to address and apply tri-level optimization across diverse domains. Moreover, the exploration of tri-level models extends into the domain of energy applications, as evidenced by a series of proposed models documented in references 66 83 . 1Institute of Informatics and Computing in Energy (IICE), UNITEN, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, MalaysiaA substantial body of research is dedicated to modeling and solving challenges associated with solar power, energy storage, and greenhouse gas emissions. A comprehensive review of the literature reveals a wealth of knowledge, with numerous studies contributing to the understanding and advancement of these critical aspects. A plethora of references, spanning from 84 94 , underscores the extensive exploration and analysis conducted by researchers in this domain. Researchers have delved into intricate models that encapsulate the dynamics of solar power systems, seeking to enhance efficiency, output, and integration within broader energy frameworks. These studies often incorporate innovative technologies and methodologies, reflecting the dynamic nature of solar energy research in the quest for sustainable solutions. Energy storage, a linchpin in the transition to renewable energy, has also been a focal point of investigation. The literature showcases endeavors to optimize the performance, reliability, and economic feasibility of energy storage systems, with a particular emphasis on addressing the intermittency challenges inherent in renewable energy sources. In tandem, greenhouse gas emissions reduction strategies have garnered significant attention. Researchers have proposed diverse models aimed at quantifying, mitigating, and monitoring emissions, with an overarching goal of fostering environmentally responsible energy practices. These studies contribute valuable insights to the ongoing discourse surrounding climate change mitigation and sustainable energy development. As the references from 95 108 attest, this collective body of research serves as a robust foundation for understanding, modeling, and solving the intricate challenges posed by solar power, energy storage, and greenhouse gas emissions. The diversity of perspectives and methodologies within this range of references underscores the interdisciplinary nature of sustainable energy research, showcasing the collaboration between experts from various fields to address the multifaceted dimensions of our global energy transition. As the global demand for sustainable energy solutions continues to rise, the integration of diverse renewable energy sources has become a paramount consideration in addressing real-world challenges. In contemporary energy landscapes, the urgent need to transition towards sustainable practices has led to a surge in interest and investment in renewable energy technologies. The integration of solar power, energy storage systems, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are pivotal aspects of this transition. Real-world challenges demand a comprehensive approach that optimizes variousarXiv:2312.03776v1 eess.SY 6 Dec 2023 2 factors simultaneously, requiring sophisticated models to address the complexity of these systems. This paper focuses on the development and application of mathematical models to optimize HRESs, which combine various sources such as solar, energy storage systems, and measures to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. II. T RI-LEVEL FOR HRES S Hybrid renewable energy systems stand as beacons of innovation in the realm of sustainable energy technology, harnessing the collective potential of diverse renewable sources to accomplish a myriad of objectives. These pioneering systems not only represent a technological breakthrough but also play a pivotal role in our collective global commitment to mitigating the adverse effects of climate change by curbing greenhouse gas emissions. At the heart of their significance is the capability to synergize different renewable sources, such as solar, wind, and energy storage systems, into an integrated and harmonious energy framework. By seamlessly blending these sources, hybrid systems enhance the overall efficiency and reliability of energy production, ensuring a more resilient and sustainable energy infrastructure. In addition to their environmental benefits, hybrid renewable energy systems contribute to energy independence and security by diversifying the energy mix. This diversification helps mitigate the vulnerabilities associated with relying solely on conventional energy sources. Furthermore, these systems foster technological advancements, encouraging ongoing research and development in the pursuit of more efficient and cost- effective solutions. As we navigate the complex landscape of energy transition, hybrid renewable energy systems emerge as not just technological marvels but as catalysts for positive change. Their implementation signifies a transformative shift towards a cleaner, more sustainable energy future, aligning
__label__energy	1 Computing a Strategic Decarbonization Pathway: A Chance-Constrained Equilibrium Problem Jip Kim, Student Member, IEEE, Robert Mieth, Student Member, IEEE, and Yury Dvorkin, Member, IEEE Abstract US transmission systems and wholesale electricity markets, albeit federally regulated, often span across multiple state jurisdictions. In this environment, state regulators can strategically exploit this techno-economic coupling to advance their clean energy policy goals at the expense of neighbor- ing jurisdictions. This paper investigates strategic regulatory competition to understand its effect on achieving Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS). We formulate a chance-constrained equilibrium problem with equilibrium constraints (CC-EPEC), which considers multiple state regulators, acting in coordination with in-state power companies, to implement RPS goals in the least-cost manner. To solve this CC-EPEC, we customize a Progressive Hedging (PH) algorithm. The case study uses the CC- EPEC and PH algorithm to analyze the effects of state regulatory competition in the ISO New England system. NOMENCLATUREA. Sets and Indices e2E Set of representative operating days i2I Set of existing generators i2 I Set of candidate generators l2L Set of transmission lines n2N Set of transmission nodes s2S Set of states,S fME, NH, VT, MA, CT, RI g t2T Set of time intervals IR;IC I Set of renewable controllable generators In I Set of generators located on bus n Is I Set of generators of regulator s Ns N Set of transmission nodes of regulator s SOS1 Special ordered set of type 1 KnSecond order conic set r(l);o(l) Receiving sending node of line l n(i) Node where generator iis located s(i) State where generator iis located B. Parameters it Participation parameter of controllable generator i ite Forecast error of renewable generator i Progressive hedging termination tolerance ite Forecast factor of generator ion timet g; Progressive hedging penalty associated with g; s Renewable portfolio standard goal of regulator s D nt Retail electricity tariff of zone n ite Normalized standard deviation of generation fore- cast error of unit i MW ite Normalized mean of generation forecast error of uniti MW !e Probability of representative day e, (P!e 1) Size of a discretization step for the binary expan- sion approach MW i Minimum output limit factor of controllable gen- eratoriPCT s Capacity tariff of regulator s kW PET s Energy feed-in-tariff of regulator s MWh BC s Budget for generation expansion of regulator s BP s Budget for renewable policies of regulator s Cinv i Capital cost of generator i(pro-rated on a daily ba- sis using the net present value approach) MW Cg i Incremental cost of generator i MWh Dnte Real power demand of zone n MW Fmax l Apparent ﬂow limit of line l MVA Gmin it Lower bound of generation power output of exist- ing generator i MW Gmax it Upper bound of generation power output of exist- ing generator i MW Hmax i Upward ramping limit of generator i MW h Hmin i Downward ramping limit of generator i MW h K Discretization parameter for the binary expansion approach P ;max n Apparent ﬂow limit of the interface line into region nfrom the transmission network MVA Rite Allocated reserve capacity of generator i MW Xl Reactance of transmission line l C. Variables fp lte;fq lteReal Reactive power ﬂow of line l MW;MVar gite Real power output of generator i MW gite Expected real power output of generator i MW go ite Offer of generator iinto wholesale market MW gite Dispatch signal of the wholesale market for gen- eratori MW gmax i Investment decision variable of generator i MW m(i) s;w(i) sProgressive hedging multiplier associated with g; p nte Interface power ﬂow into region nfrom the transmission network MW nte Locational marginal price in region n MW nte Node angle of transmission node n D. Operators k k2Euclidean norm (2-norm) Stdev Standard deviation card( ) Cardinality of a set Random variables parameters are in bold fonts I. I NTRODUCTION Motivated by the mitigation of climate change, decarboniza- tion policies have gained a lot of attention around the world. In the U.S. electric power sector, state regulators lead such policy efforts by setting the renewable portfolio standards (RPS) inarXiv:2002.08298v1 eess.SY 19 Feb 2020 2 VTMENHWCMANEMASEMACTRIMassachusetts41.1 by 2030Maine100 by 2050New Hampshire25.2 by 2025Vermont75 by 2032 Connecticut44 by 2030Rhode Island38.5 by 2035 Fig. 1: ISO New England 8-zone test system with renewable portfolio standard goals as of January 2020. their jurisdiction. RPS goals vary, but typically aim to achieve a certain amount of electricity supply from renewable energy resources (RES) by a target year. To support these goals, there are various incentives that aim to shift power production from fossil-fueled generation resources to RES, including such policy measures as subsidies, tax credits, carbon tax, etc. 1 , 2 . However, RPS are energy-centric and do not explicitly account for an increased need in the provision of ancillary services to support a major increase in RES productions. Since RES are limited in their ability to provide ancillary services (in particular, active power reserves), anticipated retirement of coal or nuclear resources may reduce the number of generators capable of providing reserve, thus obstructing further RES integration and implementation of RPS goals. Historically, expansion of grid infrastructure has been planned in a centralized framework, i.e. with a single entity that makes operation and expansion decisions in the entire system. Munoz et al. 3 investigated the effect of different renewable policy scenarios on expansion decisions under this framework. In a deregulated electricity market, centralized planning with system-wide policy scenarios as in 3 may yield inefﬁcient results as power grids and wholesale markets often span multiple jurisdictional boundaries. For example, the ISO New England transmission system and market, which are federally regulated, cover six state jurisdictions with different RPS goals as illustrated in Fig. 1 4 . In this environment, this techno-economic coupling can be exploited by strategically acting state regulators to advance their policy goals at the expense of other states. Therefore, this strategic behavior should be analyzed to properly assess the effectiveness of renewable policies and power grid expansion. Previously, strategic behavior in
__label__energy	arxiv 1 SMART GRIDS SECURED BY DYNAMIC WATERMARKING: HOW SECURE? KATE DAVIS 1, LASZLO B. KISH 1,2, , CHANAN SINGH 1 1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Texas A M University, TAMUS 3128, College Station, TX, USA 2Óbuda University , Budapest, Bécsi út 96 B, Budapest, H-1034, Hungary Unconditional security for smart grids is defined. Cryptanalyses of the watermarked security of smart grids indicate that watermarking cannot guarantee unconditional security unless the communication within the grid system is unconditionally secure. The successful attack against the dynamically watermarked smart grid remains valid even with the presence of internal noise from the grid. An open question arises: if unconditionally authenticated secure communications within the grid, together with tamper resistance of the critical elements, are satisfactory conditions to provide unconditional security for the grid operation. 1. Introduction Smart grid security 1-3 is important to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of smart grid infrastructures by preventing threats that can lead to business and operational disruptions. It involves safeguarding resources from unauthorized access, modifications, and ensuring the availability of the grid. Cybersecurity in the smart grid is essential due to the increased use of IT-based electric power systems, which increases cybersecurity vulnerabilities, leading to the need for resilient cybersecurity solutions. It is also important to protect smart grids against potential terrorist threats, espionage threats, and vulnerabilities caused by natural disasters, equipment failures, and user errors. The security of the smart grid involves ensuring that all risks are managed when things go wrong, making it a learning process and essential for the overall resilience of the smart grid. When supplier-managed demand response is employed, customer privacy and cybersecurity become crucial concerns for both the customer and the supplier. This is also true for the communication of meters to accountants. In 2016, a novel technique known as Dynamic Watermarking (DW) was introduced 4 to protect the integrity of control systems within networked cyber-physical systems. Dynamic watermarking 4 in the context of smart grids involves the addition of continuous noise to the control system of the grid to enhance its security. This technique is used to detect and defend against cyber-physical attacks in the smart grid 4-6 . By adding a dynamic watermark (noise) to the control signals and by analyzing the response, any unauthorized modifications or attacks can be detected, ensuring the integrity and security of the grid s operations. Nonetheless, a detailed cryptanalysis of DW has exposed, see in Section 4, that its security relies on the premise of a restricted adversary , with considerably constrained capability. Consequently, the security provided by DW is conditional, indicating that it is vulnerable to being compromised and does not guarantee future-proof security. To demonstrate this vulnerability, we detail a malicious attack that is effective against Corresponding author Honorary faculty. arxiv 2 systems employing DW. First for the benefit of the Reader, we summarize some of the elements of security 7 in communication systems that are necessary for this analysis. 1.1 Information-theoretic versus unconditional security in communications Table 1 summarizes the features and differences regarding conditional and unconditional security, respectively. 1.1.1 Conditional security Nowadays, shared keys are typically obtained by number theoretical protocols that involve two communicators (Alice and Bob) exchanging data. These conditionally secure schemes are not future proof, because an eavesdropper (Eve) can crack the key with enough time and or computational power. From an information-theoretic perspective, the key has zero information entropy for Eve, which means zero security. The security of these protocols relies on the assumption that it is computationally hard (but not impossible) to extract the key from the data exchange between Alice and Bob. However, this assumption has no mathematical proof; it is only based on the common intuitive opinions of many mathematicians. Effective algorithms utilizing polynomial computing power to crack the secure scheme may still exist and someone may find them. Consequently, these protocols are termed conditionally secure, contingent upon the validity of the assumption that breaking them indeed requires exponential computational power. Moreover, some of these protocols could be broken by a quantum computer, if such a device becomes available. Table 1. Conditional security Unconditional security Key features Limited Eve Trudy. Some examples: limited computational power; limited sensitivity or resolution; limited sampling rate; limited number of probing locations, etc. Example: digital communications secured by math complexity based protocols: Security claim is based on an unproven assumptions, e.g.: The hardness of the underlying math problem is exponential; Eve is limited to using polynomial computing power, which excludes the use of quantum computing, noise-based logic, and other exponential algorithms; Not Future Proof: The information is susceptible to being accessed, and it s only a matter of time or technological advancement. Unlimited Eve Trudy; Some examples: unlimited computational power; unlimited sensitivity or resolution; unlimited sampling rate; unlimited number of probing locations, etc. They are limited only by the laws of physics and certain elements of the protocol set by Alice and Bob (e.g. the active time period of a secure bit exchange); Future Proof: the information cannot be accessed by Eve; future technology improvements do not help to access communications in the past present of future. Comments Tamper resistance for Alice s and Bob s private spaces are required. Cheap, software based. Tamper resistance for Alice s and Bob s private spaces are required. More expensive, hardware based. 1.1.2 Unconditional security In contrast, information-theoretic security or unconditional security 7-9 means that the key has maximum entropy for Eve, regardless of her computational power or physical limitations. During an arbitrary attack, for a key length of N bits, Eve s information entropy remains N bits, which means the key is secure even if Eve has unlimited resources that are restricted by only the laws of physics. Time and cost are irrelevant. arxiv 3 Ciphers that are utilizing the secret keys can be made unconditionally secure without hardware components, for example, Shannon s One Time Pad (Vernon cypher) 11 . However, secure key exchange is different. Currently there are only two unconditionally secure key exchanger families:
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	arXiv:2411.05462v1 math.OC 8 Nov 2024Tracking disturbances in transmission networks J.-G. Caputo and A. Hamdi November 11, 2024 Laboratoire de Math ematiques, INSA de Rouen Normandie, Normandie Universit e 76801 Saint-Etienne du Rouvray, France E-mail: caputo insa-rouen.fr, adel.hamdi insa-rouen.fr Abstract We study the nonlinear inverse source problem of detecting, localizing and iden- tifying unknown accidental disturbances on forced and damp ed transmission net- works. A ﬁrst result is that strategic observation sets are e nough to guarantee detection of disturbances. To localize and identify them, w e additionally need the observation set to be absorbent. If this set is dominantly ab sorbent, then detection, localization and identiﬁcation can be done in quasi real-t ime . We illustrate these results with numerical experiments. 1 Introduction Networks play a major role in the transmission of electricity and ﬂuids such as gas, oil, or water. A canonical example is the power grid, a remarkable engineer ing realization that emerged in the past century. A natural mathematical model of th ese networks is a graph together with discrete conservation laws. Kirchhoﬀ s law andOhm s la w yield the discrete Laplacian: the DCloadﬂow model in the jargonof power grids. This is t hemodel used by many grid operators. Adding inertia to the system one obtains the s o-called graph wave equation. Adding driving and damping, we can model the time evolution of an electrical grid 1, 2 and a ﬂuid network 3 in a linearized approximation. This is a line arization of the so-called swing equation used to model the electrical grid 4, 5 . The detection of disturbances on such networks is an important to pic. For the grid, disturbances are electromechanical oscillations induced by faulty e quipment. For other ﬂuidnetwork, theycanbeleaks, causingunexpected pressure los ses. Suchfaultscanbreak 1 equipment, see 6 for a survey of such events for the grid. Due to the importance of the problem, many authors addressed the issue of identifying a faulty v ertex in a network. Nudell and Chakrabortty 7 propose a graph theoretic algorithm to ﬁnd forced oscillation inputs; they assume minimal information and estimate how the fault a ﬀects the Green s function of the Laplacian. Chen et al 8 use an energy-based meth od to locate oscillation sources in power systems. Delabay et al 9 propose to locate a fau lt using a maximum likelihood approach: here the state of the network is assumed to be known everywhere, not the parameters. In the literature, many works assume the unknown disturbances t o have a given form and only parts of this (frequency, amplitude,...) are unknown and sub ject to the inverse problem. To address these shortfalls, six years ago, we introduce d a source detection approach 10 for thegraphwave equation withno damping, assumin g distinct eigenvalues of the graph Laplacian and a disturbance on a single vertex that van ishes before reaching the ﬁnal monitoring time. We deﬁned a strategic observation set of vertices; this allows to reconstruct the state of the disturbance free system using o nly measurements from this set. From these observations, one can locate the source using an overdetermined linear system based onanadjoint formulation. Interestingly, the ranko f the matrixinthis linear system revealed graph conditions for placing observation vertices . Finally the procedure permits to reconstruct the disturbance. Here, we revisit the problem, allow the graph laplacian to admit eigenva lues of arbi- trary multiplicities, include damping in the dynamics and allow several dis turbances. To monitor the network for disturbances and localizing-identifying the m, one can raise the following three questions How to select the observation set of vertices to detect the prese nce of a disturbance? How to select the observation set to localize disturbances and ident ify their intensi- ties ? Can this localization and identiﬁcation be done in real time ? We also need technical conditions for which these questions can be a nswered. To tackle question one, we introduce the notion of strategic observation set and show that observing such a set gives the state of the network unequivocally. This leads to requiring condition 1 where we assume a healthy time period wherein no disturba nces occur. The detection is done by examining the diﬀerences between the observa tions of the system and it s states when it is free of disturbances (healthy states). On ce disturbances have been detected, we use these residuals to localize and identify them. Questions three is easier to address than question two. We introdu ce the technical con- dition that disturbances occur away from the observation set. Th en we show that if a submatrix of the graph Laplacian has full rank and the condition abo ve is met, then one can detect, localize and identify disturbances in quasi-real time . We call such observa- tion sets dominantly absorbent , for these, the number of vertices is larger than half the total number of network vertices. This is a strong requirement, in many cases only a 2 limited number of sensors are available. We show that if the observat ion set is absorbent , then detection, localization and identiﬁcation of disturbances rema ins possible but with a delay. We present numerical experiments illustrating these result s. The article is organized as follows: section 2 presents the mathemat ical model and states the inverse problem, section 3 shows how to detect accidental dist urbances. We present the inverse problem for dominantly absorbent observation sets an d for absorbent observa- tion sets in sections 4 and 5 respectively. Section 6 illustrates these results with numerical experiments and we conclude in section 7. 2 Mathematical modeling and problem statement In the following, we consider the evolution of a miscible ﬂow on a networ k modeled by a graphG(V) whereVis a set of vertices. We assume there are V Nvertices and the graph is connected. We consider the system of diﬀerential equations X(t) η X(t) X(t) F(t), (1) whereXis the N dimensional vector deﬁning the network state. is the N Ngraph Laplacian matrix deﬁned by
__label__energy	Designing a sector-coupled European energy system robust to 60 years of historical weather data Ebbe Kyhl Gøtskea,b, , Gorm Bruun Andresena,b, Fabian Neumannd, Marta Victoriaa,b,c Abstract As energy systems transform to rely on renewable energy and electrification, they encounter stronger year-to-year vari- ability in energy supply and demand. However, most infrastructure planning is based on a single weather year, resulting in a lack of robustness. In this paper, we optimize energy infrastructure for a European energy system designed for net- zero CO 2emissions in 62 different weather years. Subsequently, we fix the capacity layouts and simulate their operation in every weather year, to evaluate resource adequacy and CO 2emissions abatement. We show that interannual weather variability causes variation of 10 in total system cost. The most expensive capacity layout obtains the lowest net CO2emissions but not the highest resource adequacy. Instead, capacity layouts designed with years including compound weather events result in a more robust and cost-effective design. Deploying CO 2-emitting backup generation is a cost- effective robustness measure, which only increase CO 2emissions marginally as the average CO 2emissions remain less than 1 of 1990 levels. Our findings highlight how extreme weather years drive investments in robustness measures, making them compatible with all weather conditions within six decades of historical weather data. aDepartment of Mechanical and Production Engineering, Katrinebjergvej 89F, 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark biCLIMATE Interdisciplinary Centre for Climate Change, Aarhus University, Denmark cNovo Nordisk Foundation CO 2Research Center, Aarhus University, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark dDepartment of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, Institute of Energy Technology, Technische Universit at Berlin, Fakult at III, Einsteinufer 25 (TA 8), 10587 Berlin, Germany Lead contact and corresponding author, Email: ekg mpe.au.dk Preprint submitted to Nature Communications May 10, 2024arXiv:2404.12178v2 physics.soc-ph 9 May 2024 Decarbonizing power systems by rebuilding them around wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) generation has shown to be a cost-effective strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emis- sions in Europe 1, 2 and globally 3 . This strategy can also help decarbonize other sectors using direct electrifi- cation (via heat pumps or electric vehicles), and indirect electrification (using electrolytic hydrogen and other syn- thetic fuels) 1, 2 . Future energy systems with high wind and solar penetration might be more sensitive to interan- nual weather variation and extreme weather events, which should be considered in the planning of infrastructure for the energy transition. However, considering decades of weather data in a single capacity expansion optimization is computationally expensive at the high resolution that infrastructure planning requires. Hence, most previous studies use only a single weather year in their analysis. Recent efforts to investigate interannual weather vari- ability impacts on energy systems include modeling sys- tem dispatch 4, 5 or estimating optimal capacities 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 for several weather years, estimating the stor- age capacity required to deal with dunkeflauten ,i.e. a period of low wind and solar generation 11 , determin- ing the overlapping of near-optimal solutions spaces cal- culated for different weather years 10 , or attempting to classify the weather regimes that are particularly challeng- ing for the European power system 12, 13, 5, 14, 15 . As- sessments have also been conducted on the impact of ex- treme weather events on conventional infrastructure, in- cluding investigations of persistent cold spells in Texas 14 and heat waves in North America 16, 17 . However, previous research either considers one country in isolation 6, 8, 11, 12, 18 (omitting the impact of cross-border en- ergy flows, transmission bottlenecks and regional variabil- ity), includes only the power system 10, 5, 6, 7, 4, 9, 11, 19 (omitting the synergetic benefits from sector-coupling 1 ), or consider only interannual variability of wind and solar capacity factors, and electricity demand 6, 7, 4, 9, 11, 19 (disregarding the impact of large interannual variation of hydropower inflow 20, 21 ). Furthermore, interannual weather variability does not only impact the energy supply but also has large impacts on the demand 22, 23, 24 . Our analysis employs PyPSA-Eur, an open networked model of the European sector-coupled energy system 2, 25 , which performs regional capacity expansion planning of energy infrastructure, covering the energy demands and CO2emissions in the electricity, heating, land transport, shipping and aviation, and industry (including industrial feedstock) sectors with comprehensive carbon management. Using 62 years of weather data (1960-2021), we investi- gate the impacts of different solar PV, onshore and off- shore wind capacity factors, hydropower inflow, heating demand, and coefficient of performance (COP) of heat pumps time series. We first perform a greenfield joint ca- pacity and dispatch optimization for a European system constrained to net-zero CO 2emissions for every weather year (design year) to determine 62 alternative capacity lay- outs. Throughout this paper, we use the term design yearto refer to the weather year used as input in the joint ca- pacity and dispatch optimization. Subsequently, we keep the capacities fixed and analyze their robustness to in- terannual weather variations by simulating the dispatch in each of the remaining 61 weather years (operational years) different from the design year. Here, we refer to the weather years in the dispatch optimization as opera- tional years . To accommodate extreme events, we allow the activation of CO 2-emitting backup generation, which is subjected to a CO 2tax derived from the shadow price calculated on the design year. Focusing on two key criteria, avoiding unserved energy and mitigating CO 2emissions, we address how interannual weather variations impact a highly renewable European energy system. Furthermore, we shed light on the characteristics that a robust energy system exhibits. Results Capacity optimization for different weather years . The optimization obtained with all design years (1960 - 2021) in Fig. 1a yields an average system cost of 803 bil- lion per year with a variation of 10 in the most expen- sive and the cheapest capacity layouts. The distribution of system costs exhibits long tails (Fig. 1g), suggesting that rare extreme weather years drive the range of system costs. In searching
__label__energy	Development of the Complex Nexus of Socio-Techno - Economic -Environmental Parametric (STEEP) Metrics for Evaluating Coal -to-Clean Energy Transitions Muhammad R. Abdussami1, , Aditi Verma1 1University of Michigan, 2355 Bonisteel Blvd, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, Unites States Abstract : Transitioning from coal to clean energy (e.g., nuclear and renewables) is essential to mitigate climate change, improve air quality, and ensure sustainable energy security. Reducing reliance on coal lowers greenhouse gas emissions and pollution, enhancing public health and economic growth through renewable energy investments. Additionally, clean energy promotes energy independence and long -term sustainability. This transition involves developing a Complex Nexus of Socio -Techno -Economic -Environmental Parametric (STEEP) Metrics to systematically evaluate and guide these transitions, facilitate informed decision -making, and optimize resource allocation to achieve environmental and socioeconomic benefits. It provides a structured framework for navigating the complexities of repurposing existing coal infrastructure, addressing the multifaceted challenges in aligning societal, technical, economic, and environmental considerations. Thus, the paper presents a comprehensive methodology to assess the feasibility of converting coal plants into clean energy systems. It classifies the methodological approach into three: optimal site selection using a multi -criteria decision -making framework with societal, technical, economic, and environmental criteria to rank suitable coal plant sites; optimal long -term planning evaluation with performance indicators to compare the techno -economic - environmental benefits of different energy mix strategies, such as Greenfield, Coal -to- Nuclear (C2N), and Coal -to-Integrated Energy System (C2IES); and short -term operational benefits assessment via the Unit Commitment Economic Dispatch (UCED) model that optimizes generator scheduling and minimizes costs across multiple scenarios (Coal plant, Greenfield, C2N, and C2IES). The study develops extensive metrics for evaluating the feasibility of coal to clean transitions. This framework enables researchers and practitioners to effectively analyze the potential of this transition and identify the optimal strategies for implementation . Highlights: Development of a multi -criteria framework for optimal site selection in coal to clean energy transitions. Development of a methodological framework for evaluating the benefits of coal to clean energy transitions from long -term planning perspective. Formulation of a methodological architecture for assessing the advantages of coal to clean energy transitions from short -term operational perspective. Key words: Coal to Clean Energy Transition; Site Selection; Long -term Energy System Planning; Energy System Operation . Nomenclature: AHP Analytic Hierarchy Process CPP Coal Power Plant C2N Coal to Nuclear C2IES Coal to Integrated Energy System EPRI Electric Power Research Institute GIS Geographic Information System LOLP Loss of Load Probability LWR Light Water Reactor NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission TES Thermal Energy Storage SMR Small Modular Reactor 1. Introduction : The transition from coal to clean energy is essential because it aligns with the global imperative to decarbonize power generation while ensuring a reliable electricity supply. Coal to clean energy transitions can be conducted in several ways; it could be Greenfield, Coal -to-Nuclear (C2N), and Coal -to-Integrated Energy Systems (C2IES). Greenfield a genuine greenfield nuclear power plant (NPP) construction project, entirely independent of any existing coal power plant (CPP). It does not include any infrastructure or the component from the existing CPP. There are no decommissioning costs associated with CPP; the costs and schedule pertain solely to the NPP construction. C2N option includes different component (e.g., steam -cycle component, electrical component, and transmission lines) and civil infrastructure form the existing CPP. In C2IES, both nuclear reactors and renewable energy sources are deployed into the existing CPP. Components from existing CPP is also reused in C2IES. Coal-to-Renewables option is not considered here since stand - alone renewable system poses significant uncertainty into the system. Replacing coal -fired plants with clean energy leverages existing infrastructure, reduces carbon emissions, and maintains grid stability. However, this shift is inherently complex due to the diverse factors involved. Each potential site must be carefully assessed for compatibility with advanced nuclear reactors and renewable technologies , including cooling water availability, transmission grid integration, seismic safety, and local policy restrictions. Additionally, social acceptance, economic viability, and technical feasibility must be harmonized to ensure the transition minimizes job losses while maximizing community benefits. The process also requires navigating complex regulatory requirements, significant capital investments, and long -term planning to ensure operational success. Thus, while coal to clean conversion is crucial for a sustainable energy future, it presents a multifaceted challenge that demands careful strategic planning. Selecting optimal sites, conducting long -term planning assessments, and evaluating the short -term operational benefits involve complex computational tasks. The literature on optimal site selection for coal to clean transitions is relatively inadequate . Susiati et al. identify potential nuclear plant sites in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, using GIS and analytical hierarchical processes (AHP). They prioritize coastal locations to support water reactor cooling. The analysis discovers 12 potential sites and recom mends two priority locations for their minimal environmental impact and compliance with regional planning guidelines 1 . Devanand at el. propose a novel Mixed Integer Non -Linear Programming (MINLP) model for evaluating land sites suitable for modular nuclear power plants (NPPs). The model considers a range of factors such as cost, cooling water availability, and seismic risk. A case study uses the model to identify optimal modular NPP sites, demonstrating its ability to inform preliminary site analysis 2 . Martins et al. present a comprehensive overview of the criteria and methodologies for selecting suitable sites for nuclear power plants. Emphasizing the importance of integrating GIS and multicriteria decision analysis, it seeks to create transparent and participatory site selection processes that balance safety, technical, economic, and environmental factors 3 . Omitaomu et al. introduce a GIS -based tool, Oak Ridge Siting Analysis for Power Generation Expansion (OR -SAGE). This tool helps energy stakeholders identify optimal locations for advanced nuclear reactors using criteria like population density, water availability, and geological hazards 4 . However, none of the research discusses the criteria for siting while adopting coal to clean energy transitions. A list of research talks about the economic benefits of C2N transitions. Hansen et al. demonstrated that about 80 of coal plant sites in the
__label__energy	1 An Uncertainty Management Framework for Integrated Gas-Electric Energy Systems Line Roald, Kaarthik Sundar, Anatoly Zlotnik, Sidhant Misra, and G oran Andersson Abstract In many parts of the world, electric power systems have seen a signiﬁcant shift towards generation from renewable energy and natural gas. Because of their ability to ﬂexibly adjust power generation in real time, gas-ﬁred power plants are frequently seen as the perfect partner for variable renewable generation. However, this reliance on gas generation increases interdependence and propagates uncertainty between power grids and gas pipelines, and brings coordination and uncertainty man- agement challenges. To address these issues, we propose an un- certainty management framework for uncertain, but bounded gas consumption by gas-ﬁred power plants. The admissible ranges are computed based on a joint optimization problem for the combined gas and electricity networks, which involves chance-constrained scheduling for the electric grid and a novel robust optimization formulation for the natural gas network. This formulation ensures feasibility of the integrated system with a high probability, while providing a tractable numerical formulation. A key advance with respect to existing methods is that our method is based on a physically accurate, validated model for transient gas pipeline ﬂows. Our case study benchmarks our proposed formulation against methods that ignore how reserve activation impacts the fuel use of gas power plants, and only consider predetermined gas consumption. The results demonstrate the importance of considering uncertainty to avoid operating constraint violations and curtailment of gas to the generators. I. I NTRODUCTION Throughout the world, the share of electricity generated from renewable energy sources is rapidly increasing, concur- rently with a shift towards using natural gas as the predominant fuel for traditional bulk generation 1 . These trends are both driven by near-term goals to decrease carbon emissions 2 , as well as long term plans to progress towards fully renewable electric energy systems 3 . In the United States, technological changes that enable the exploitation of previously inaccessible natural gas resources, such as shale formations, have made this L. Roald is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineer- ing, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 53706 USA, e-mail: roald wisc.edu. K. Sundar, A. Zlotnik, and S. Misra are with Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM, 87545 USA, e-mail: fkaarthikj azlotnikjsidhantg lanl.gov. G oran Andersson is Professor Emeritus at ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland, e-mail: andersson eeh.ee.ethz.ch. The ﬁrst author acknowledges funding from the Center for Non-Linear Studies (CNLS) at Los Alamos National Laboratory and U.S. Department of Energy, Ofﬁce of Science, Ofﬁce of Advanced Scientiﬁc Computing Research, Applied Mathematics program under Contract Number DE-AC02- 06CH11347. The authors are grateful to Sandra Jenkins and Alireza Ghas- semian of the U.S. Department of Energy Ofﬁce of Electricity for supporting this study. Work at Los Alamos National Laboratory was conducted under the auspices of the National Nuclear Security Administration of the U.S. Depart- ment of Energy under Contract No. 89233218CNA000001. This manuscript is approved for unlimited distribution with report number LA-UR-20-20818.fuel abundant and inexpensive 4 , 5 . Conveniently, natural gas-ﬁred generators produce signiﬁcantly lower carbon dioxide and particulate emissions relative to coal power plants, and are much easier to site, permit, and build than nuclear generating stations 6 . This has placed natural gas as the transition fuel in the evolving generation mix, which is viewed as a bridge between the traditional centralized grid and a future sustainable energy system 7 9 . The advantages of gas-ﬁred generators go beyond reduced cost and emissions, and include the ability to ﬂexibly modulate power production in real time. Single cycle plants can quickly go online and have ﬂexible ramping capabilities that allow for fast modulation of their generation output. They are therefore often used as marginal resources that start and shut down multiple times a day. This capability is viewed as ﬁlling the near-term need to compensate for rapid changes in uncon- trollable renewable generation 10 , 11 , but also leads to high-volume changes and short-term uncertainty in natural gas consumption 12 . The characteristics of gas-ﬁred power plants are hence very different from traditional loads on natural gas pipelines, such as local gas distribution companies, who hold ﬁrm delivery contracts for steady supply of natural gas 13 , or industrial customers, who have time-varying, but predictable gas withdrawals 12 , 14 . As gas-ﬁred generation expands to account for nearly 50 of installed electric generation capacity in the U.S., such differences become increasingly problematic, and make the power grid vulnerable to interruptions in the natural gas supply chain 15 17 . These interruptions increas- ingly challenge the ability of power grid operators to meet generation demand, maintain operating reserves, and ensure power system reliability 18 . Addressing the risk of natural gas shortfall to electric generators is thus essential, and requires the development of more efﬁcient and reliable decision support tools to manage the impact of more variable and uncertain operations in a secure, economical manner. These new tools must address three important challenges: First, there is a need for increased coordination and in- formation exchange between gas pipelines and the power grid, particularly to improve transparency and jointly manage constraints of the integrated energy delivery network, which we refer to as the gas-electric system . Second, the tools must include models that reﬂect the physics of energy ﬂow in electric grids and natural gas pipelines, which each have their distinct challenges. Because electric grids have minimal inherent storage, grid operators must balance generation with load at all times 19 , which makes it challenging to secure the system against large outages or ﬂuctuations in renewable energy. The fast system dynamicsarXiv:2006.14561v1 eess.SY 25 Jun 2020 2 of electric grids enables power ﬂow in these systems to be accurately represented using steady-state power ﬂow models. Natural gas pipelines, on the other hand, have signiﬁcant energy stored internally in the form of the transported gas, and can sustain unbalanced operations over hours or days 20 . However, representing this behavior requires modeling of tran- sient gas dynamics
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	Optimal Sizing of Hybrid Renewable Energy Based Microgrid Syst em Irfan Rahman Department of EEE Islamic University of Technology Gazipur,Dhaka,Bangladesh irfanrahman iut -dhaka.edu Farheen Suha Department of EEE Islamic University of Technology Gazipur,Dhaka,Bangladesh farheensuha iut -dhaka.edu Ashik Ahmed Department of EEE Islamic University of Technology Gazipur,Dhaka,Bangladesh ashik123 iut -dhaka.edu Abstract With the decline of fossil fuel reserves and the escalating global average temperature, the quest for environmentally friendly and renewable energy sources has gained significant momentum. Focus has turned to wind and photovoltaic energy, but their variable inputs necessitate energy storage for reliable power. Economic viability of hybrid renewable power requires meticulous optimizati on of generating units to ensure uninterrupted and efficient energy production. This paper presents an optimal sizing approach for a Wind -Photovoltaic -Biogas -Battery system using a single objective optimization (SOO) method. A comprehensive comparative ana lysis is conducted, evaluating the convergence speed and objective mean (for minimization) of seven metaheuristic optimizers: Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), Aquila Optimizer (AO), Pelican Optimization Algorithm (POA), Dandelion Optimizing Algorithm (DO A), Gazelle Optimization Algorithm (GOA), Zebra Optimization Algorithm (ZOA), and Osprey Optimization Algorithm (OOA ). The results demonstrate that the Pelican Optimization Algorithm (POA) outperforms other existing algorithms, exhibiting faster convergenc e and lower objective mean . Keywords Microgrid, Hybrid Renewable Energy System (HRES), Hybrid Optimization Model for Electric Renewables (HOMER), Grid -Connected Renewable Hybrid Systems Optimization (GRHYSO ), Semiconducting Magnetic Energy Storage (SEMS), Loss of Power Supply Probability (LPSP). I. INTRODUCTION In a world yearning for a harmonious equilibrium, renewable energy sources hold the key to unlocking a brighter tomorrow. They present us with an unparalleled opportunity to meet our ever-growing energy needs sustainably and responsibly 1, 2 . Enter renewable energy sources 3 : the champions of a cleaner, greener future. Solar energy, hydro energy, wind energy, biomass, and biogas have emerged as beacons of possibility, offering efficient a nd sustainable means of power generation 4 . These sources, when harnessed together in hybrid systems, possess the power to transform our energy landscape, providing us with abundant electricity while treading lightly on t he Earth 5 . HRES enable the opportunity of integrating both renewable and conventional energy sources, offering the potential to achieve enhanced efficiency compared to individual power sources 6 . Within the various functioning Hybrid Renewable Energy System (HRES) technologies, those that have proved efficacy, environmental friendliness, and economic feasibility are the comb ination of Photo -Voltaic (PV) cell, Wind Turbine(WT), Biomass and Battery Storage System (BSS) 7 . II. BACKGROUND Sustainable Energy Development Strategies 8 typically focus on three key technological changes: demand -side energy savings, increased energy production efficiency, and the replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy sources 9 . Large -scale renewable energ y implementation plans must include coherent strategies for integrating renewable sources into energy systems influenced by energy savings and efficiency initiatives 10 . Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems(HRES) are a novel power generation method that combines two or more renewable energy sources with traditional ones 11 . Popular optimization methods like Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) 12 , Aquila Optimizer (AO) 13 , Pelican Optimization Algorithm (POA) 14 , Dandelion Optimization Algorithm (DOA) 15, 16 , Gazelle Optimization Algorithm(GOA) 17-19 , and Zebra Optimization Algorithm (ZOA) 20, 21 frequently mimic biological behavior . An optimization case study of an off -grid hybrid system was done in Indonesia with PV panels, a bio generator, a diesel generator, batteries, and the grid optimally addressed energy needs 22 . Research demonstrated the technological advantages of a hybrid PV -BESS for renewable energy utilization and investigated the feasibility of a Building Integrated PV (BIPV) system with and without a battery 23 . For rural electrification a study was done focus ing on designing an ideal Hybrid Renewable Energy System (HRES) using solar PV, wind turbines, and bio generators 24 . Load forecasts for residential, commercial, institutional, and agricultural sectors were calculated for reliable electrificati on 25 . Papers 7, 26, 27 identify PV -WT-BS (photovoltaic, wind turbine, and battery storage) as the most cost -efficient Hybrid Renewable Energy System (HRES) combination, utilizing six optimal sizing methods for configuration determination. In contrast, papers 28-30 explore PV -WT-DG-BS (photovoltaic, wind turbine, diesel generator, and battery storage), employ ing various algorithms to optimize system sizing. All these works in the literature review motivated us to study HRES optimized microgrid system. According to the literature review, the most promising combination of HRES components is a PV module and a wi nd turbine, with the battery serving as energy storage. Thus, in this study, we considered the aforementioned combination, along with biomass, as a new renewable source. Our main objective is to propose an optimization technique for a wind -photovoltaic - Fig. 1. PV-WT-BG-BS hybrid renewable energy system Table 1. Specifications of Wind Turbine ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) biogas -battery hybrid renewable energy system that is both cost-effective and guarantees zero power supply probability. In addition, several recent optimization algorithms for a wind -photovoltaic -biogas -battery hybrid renewable energy system will be c ompared to get the optimal sizing of the microgrid system. III. METHODOLOGY This section construes elliptically the procedures which were used to achieve the optimum outcome. In this study, the optimum result is characterized as the lowest achievable expenditu re for the setup, maintenance, and operational cost of the chosen components of the HRES for a pe riod of 25 years while keeping LPSP close to zero throughout the enti re duration. All the calculations done in this study are based on hourly basis. A. System Archite cture Hybrid Renewable Energy System(HRES) was established for the replacement of non -renewable energy sources while fostering the use of renewables. Multiple energy sources are essential for stability due to the unpredictable nature of renewable energy. Such a diversified system offers increased reliability, cost -effectiveness, and efficiency compared to a single -source system 30, 31 . The HRES analyzed in this study consists of four primary components . Three of which are renewable energy source
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	1 Synchronous Pre-biasing of Triboelectric Nanogenerator for Enhanced Energy Extraction Madhav Pathak and Ratnesh Kumar, Fellow, IEEE This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible.Abstract Triboelectric Nanogenerator (TENG) is a class of ambient mechanical energy harvesters used to augment the battery life of electronic devices such as sensors in implantables, wearables, and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. In this work, the fundamentals of pre-biasing (pre-charging) the TENG at the start of the operation cycle to enhance the per-cycle extracted energy is presented. The energy gain is mathematically formulated, and the optimum pre-biasing voltage (equivalently charge) is derived by analyzing the energy exchange between the mechanical and the electrical domain over a periodic cycle. Further, a novel Energy Extraction Circuit (EEC) termed as Pre-biased Synchronous Charge Extraction (pSCE) is intro- duced to 1) Realize synchronous pre-biasing of TENG using the load battery itself and 2) Achieve enhanced energy extraction from TENG. Energy output per-cycle is derived analytically for the pSCE circuit and compared to the state of the art Synchronous Charge Extraction (SCE) circuit. The experimental implementation is performed for the proposed pSCE circuit that shows a 6.65 fold gain over the Full Wave Rectiﬁer (standard EEC) and 1.45 over the SCE circuit for a 5V battery load. Index Terms energy harvesting, triboelectric nanogenerator, switched circuits, pre-biasing I. I NTRODUCTION WIRELESS sensor nodes used in the Internet of Things (IoT), wearable and, implantable applications are com- monly powered by an on-board battery. Embedding an ambient energy harvester to charge the on-board battery is a green solution to prolonging the battery life 1 , and it may also help reduce the size and weight by using a lower capacity battery. Among the ambient energy sources such as solar, mechanical, chemical, and thermal 2 , mechanical sources are most readily available in the form of wind water ﬂow, machine structure vibration, human body motion, etc. 3 5 . Hence, mechanical to electrical energy transducers such as piezoelectric, electrostatic, and electromagnetic have seen signiﬁcant development efforts in the past years 6 , 7 . The piezoelectric energy harvesters have been widely used but are subject to a limited choice of materials and require complex fabrication techniques 8 . In contrast, Triboelectric Nanogenerator (TENG) has shown promising potential owing to its almost universal choice of materials and operation modes 9 . Motion transduction leads to variable output that needs rectiﬁcation to charge DC battery load, and thus, Full Wave Rectiﬁer (FWR) can be considered the simplest Energy Ex- traction Circuit (EEC) 10 . Approaches to enhance TENG s This work was supported in part by U.S. National Science Foundation under grants NSF-CCF-1331390, NSF-ECCS-1509420, NSF-PFI-1602089, and NSF-CSSI-2004766. The authors would like to thank Alex Denny of Rowe Electronics for PCB implementation of the circuits. The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011 USA (e-mail: mpathak iastate.edu; rkumar iastate.edu).energy output require improving the source to load matching. To this end, several novel EEC architectures have been pro- posed in the literature to increase the energy output beyond the FWR circuit such as 11 18 . It is shown in 11 that all these different EEC outputs are conﬁned within the cycle for maximized energy output (CMEO), where the synchronously serial switched ﬂyback converter with the rectiﬁed TENG output can achieve the CMEO irrespective of the load value 14 , 16 , 18 . This last architecture has been proposed previously in the piezoelectric context 19 22 , by the name of Synchronous Charge Extraction (SCE), which is how we also refer to it in this paper. The aforementioned EECs may be viewed as passive EECs , where no harvested energy is fed back to the TENG. In this work, we study the pre-biasing orpre-charging of TENG by feeding back some of the load battery energy to the TENG, thereby realizing an active EEC , which enables us to achieve a net output beyond the CMEO limit . Pre-biasing is accomplished by charging the TENG capacitor at the start of each half-cycle (at the minimum and maximum separation of TENG plates) by using the battery to charge the TENG capacitor (termed pre-biasing) so that it increases the force between the two plates and thereby the work done against it during separation phase by the mechanical source, causing a higher level of transduced energy and hence also a higher level of extracted energy. In contrast, during the contraction phase, when plates move in the direction of the electrostatic force, there is energy loss, and pre-biasing is used to minimize this loss to zero. Upper and optimum limits, if any, on the pre- biasing voltage for each half-cycle are derived by analyzing the interplay of mechanical motion and electrostatic forces. The concept of pSCE circuit itself was initially explored in our earlier conference paper 23 but without a detailed analysis and experimental validation. Here we present its complete mathematical working and derive the energy output per-cycle, which is then contrasted against the SCE circuit s CMEO output. Additionally, the precise conditions on the pre-biasing voltages for ensuring net beneﬁt over SCE are derived. Finally, the experimental implementation of the pSCE circuit is also presented, and its performance improvement over SCE and the standard Full Wave Rectiﬁer (FWR) circuit is experimentally validated. It is further important to note that while pSCE circuit architecture has been explored previously for piezoelectric transducers 20 , 24 , the analysis is entirely different in the case of triboelectric transducers, since it has different circuit model: For a piezoelectric transducer, capacitor appears in parallel to the source and is ﬁxed , whereas the triboelectric capacitor appears in series and is time-varying . The work reported here involves innovation to deal with the time-varyingarXiv:2105.10856v2 physics.app-ph 1 Sep 2021 2 Teflon (Dielectric)Aluminum (Electrode)Acrylic (Substrate)Surface Triboelectric Charge ( -σA) (a)VTx(t) d - (c) (b)Dielectric ( -σA) E4Substrate (Moving) E3 VT - -VOC
__label__energy	Graph-based Model of Smart Grid Architectures Benedikt Klaer , Omer Sen , Dennis van der Velde , Immanuel Hacker , Michael Andres , Martin Henzez Digital Energy, Fraunhofer FIT, Aachen, Germany Email: fbenedikt.klaer, oemer.sen, dennis.van.der.velde, immanuel.hacker, michael.andres g ﬁt.fraunhofer.de zCyber Analysis Defense, Fraunhofer FKIE, Wachtberg, Germany Email: martin.henze fkie.fraunhofer.de Abstract The rising use of information and communication technology in smart grids likewise increases the risk of failures that endanger the security of power supply, e.g., due to errors in the communication conﬁguration, faulty control algorithms, or cyber-attacks. Co-simulations can be used to investigate such effects, but require precise modeling of the energy, commu- nication, and information domain within an integrated smart grid infrastructure model. Given the complexity and lack of detailed publicly available communication network models for smart grid scenarios, there is a need for an automated and systematic approach to creating such coupled models. In this paper, we present an approach to automatically generate smart grid infrastructure models based on an arbitrary electrical distribution grid model using a generic architectural template. We demonstrate the applicability and unique features of our approach alongside examples concerning network planning, co- simulation setup, and speciﬁcation of domain-speciﬁc intrusion detection systems. Index Terms Smart Grid Model, Graph Model, SGAM, Co- Simulation, Cyber-Physical System I. I NTRODUCTION The increased penetration of electrical power grids with volatile renewable energies, as well as new load situations, e.g., through electro-mobility, confront grid operators with new challenges: Bottlenecks due to increased power ﬂow or voltage limits must be identiﬁed and remedied by timely active grid operation, leading to increased use of information and communication technology (ICT) 1 3 . Failures of this ICT infrastructure seriously endanger the security of power supply, e.g., through the incorrect conﬁguration of communication links, defective algorithms for grid automation, or cyber- attacks 2 , 4 . Consequently, there is a need to (i) design and conﬁgure ICT infrastructure in power grids to realize topologies that are ﬂexible and resilient to failures, (ii) study the impact of ICT failures and misconﬁguration as well as defective algorithms, and (iii) develop resilience and cyber- security approaches that consider both, the energy and ICT domain. Motivation and Background. Co-simulations of combined energy and ICT domain are an indispensable tool to analyze these risks and countermeasures at an early stage and enable planning of more resilient power grids 5 . To enable such co- simulation of large-scale smart grid scenarios, the consistent and integrated modeling of data points, parameters, interfaces, communication links, as well as ICT and Operational Technol- ogy (OT) devices is of utmost importance 2 , 5 . Focusing on the electrical side of power grids, power grid models are anindispensable tool for grid operators and researchers to plan grid expansion and connection, as well as to solve operational problems 6 . Popular power system simulators and analysis tools such as MATPOWER or pandapower are shipped with different public power grid models 6 . Despite the popularity of modeling approaches for the electrical side of power grids, corresponding models for the ICT side are missing, mainly due to security concerns of grid operators 2 . Thus, synthetic and ﬂexibly constructed ICT infrastructure models based on power grid models provide a valuable alternative. Relevant Literature. A fundamental foundation for the mod- eling of smart grids is the Smart Grid Architecture Model (SGAM) 7 . SGAM allows to describe smart grid system architectures and use cases, with the aim to reveal gaps in smart grid standardization 8 . In its core, SGAM provides an approach to deconstruct the smart grid system landscape into the three dimensions (i) domains (energy conversion chain), (ii) zones, and (iii) the interoperability layer 9 , 10 . The wide applicability of SGAM, enabling distributed simu- lations and model-driven approaches 7 , is utilized in previous works demonstrating model-based rapid prototyping of smart grids 11 . Further works are presenting approaches to reduce complexity and improve traceability in the model-driven smart grid application development 12 , introducing SGAM-based modeling language for also integrating security by design concept 13 . Furthermore, substation design can be speciﬁed by utilizing the common information model together with the IEC 61850 standard through ontology matching 14 within the Query View Transformation standard 15 . However, these studies lack a holistic approach to model smart grid infrastructures, incorporating the technical interop- erability speciﬁcation and conﬁguration of the various compo- nents. W.r.t. the practical applicability, a detailed speciﬁcation of data points, logical component behavior, and ICT network and power grid conﬁguration intertwined in a common model structure is needed. Contributions and Organization. In this paper, we bridge the gap between existing power grid models and the need to also provide models for the corresponding ICT infrastructure and its network conﬁguration. To this end, we present an approach to model a graph-based energy information network based on power grid models and smart grid use cases, drawing from the concept of model-driven software engineering 11 , 12 , 16 . The underlying graph structure of our approach enables an automated construction of a smart grid infrastructure model Author s version of a paper accepted for publication in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Smart Energy Systems and Technologies (SEST). c 2020 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.arXiv:2009.00273v1 cs.SE 1 Sep 2020 with interoperable network conﬁguration. Furthermore, the automated creation of data points in OT devices allows for an interoperable conﬁguration, e.g., in co-simulation trials, and serves as a basis for actual deployment. Our contributions are: 1) We provide an analysis of current research challenges regarding missing smart grid ICT models (Section II). 2) We propose and discuss a structured approach for cre- ating a graph-based infrastructure model consisting of blueprint, modeling,
__label__energy	Quantifying Market E ciency Impacts of Aggregated Distributed Energy Resources Khaled Alshehri, Mariola Ndrio, Subhonmesh Bose, Tamer Ba sar To appear in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems Abstract We focus on the aggregation of distributed energy resources (DERs) through a pro t- maximizing intermediary that enables participation of DERs in wholesale electricity markets. Particularly, we study the market e ciency brought in by the large-scale deployment of DERs and explore to what extent such bene ts are o set by the pro t-maximizing nature of the ag- gregator. We deploy a game-theoretic framework to study the strategic interactions between an agreggator and DER owners. The proposed model takes into account the stochastic nature of the DER supply. We explicitly characterize the equilibrium of the game and provide illustrative examples to quantify the e ciency loss due to the strategic incentives of the aggregator. Our numerical experiments illustrate the impact of uncertainty and amount of DER integration on the overall market e ciency. 1 Introduction Widespread adoption of distributed energy resources (DERs) coupled with advances in communica- tion and information technology, are pushing electricity markets to a more decentralized consumer- centric model. DERs typically include rooftop solar, small-scale wind turbines, electric vehicles as well as demand-response schedules. More generally, a DER is any resource on the distribution system that produces electricity and is not otherwise included in the formal NERC de nition of the Bulk Electric System (BES) 1 . The low-voltage side of the grid, traditionally comprising mostly of passive small-scale consumers, is rapidly transforming into an active component of the grid where prosumers respond to price signals for managing their consumption and production of energy 2 . Transmission system operators lack visibility into the low and medium voltage distribution grid where DERs are connected. Furthermore, DERs have relatively small capacities that together with the high costs and complexities involved in their integration, render it impractical for such resources to directly o er their services in wholesale electricity markets. Despite signi cant research on e ective means to harness such resources, a unifying framework for integration and compensation of DERs remains under debate.1See 3 6 for insightful discussions. K. Alshehri is with the Systems Engineering Department, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Dhahran, 31261 Saudi Arabia. Email: kalshehri kfupm.edu.sa. M. Ndrio, S. Bose, and T. Ba sar are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801 USA. Email:fndrio2, boses, basar1 g illinois.edu. 1FERC has issued Order 841 on energy storage and a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on DERs, but is yet to de ne a binding framework for general DER participation in US wholesale markets. 2arXiv:1911.02993v2 math.OC 17 Apr 2020 Retail Aggregator(price-arbitrageur)StackelbergGameprice𝜌Capacity𝑋(𝜌)Prosumers (Nash game)price and quantity(𝜆,𝑞𝒜) Wholesale Marketsupply offer𝑝𝒜(𝑋)Figure 1: Interactions between prosumers, the DER aggregator, and the wholesale market. One line of work promotes the implementation of distribution electricity markets operated by an independent distribution system operator (DSO), that acts as a market manager and dispatcher of DERs 7 9 . In this model, the DSO is responsible for collecting the o ers and bids from market participants and determine the appropriate prices to compensate DER asset owner-operators 10 12 . Another approach advocates fully distributed market structures, where prosumers trade DER services with each other as members of a coordinated and purely transactive community 13,14 . In this paper, we focus on a third DER participation model through an aggregator A a company that acts as an intermediary between electricity end-users and DER owners, and the power system participants who wish to serve these end-users or exploit the services provided by these DERs , according to 15 . California Independent System Operator (CAISO) allows such aggregators with capacities north of 0.5MW to participate in its wholesale markets for energy and ancillary services. See 16 for an analysis of CAISO s model. Our focus is on e ciency impacts of a pro t-motivated retail aggregator a topic that has not yet received much attention. We model the interaction between an aggregator Aand prosumers with DERs as a Stackelberg game in Section 2. Aprocures DER capacities from prosumers upon o ering them a uniform price, and sells the aggregated capacity at the wholesale market price, pro ting from arbitrage. DER capacities are uncertain. Afaces penalties for defaulting on its promised o er to the wholesale market that she allocates among the prosumers. We analyze the resulting interaction, depicted in Figure 1 via game theory and characterize its equilibria that explicitly models uncertainties in DER supply. In Section 3, we introduce a new metric we call Price of Aggregation (PoAg ) that compares power procurement costs in the wholesale market from two di erent DER participation models. In the rst model, prosumers participate through A. In the second one, they participate directly and o er their capacities in the wholesale market. The second model serves as the ideal yet impractical benchmark for e cient DER participation. PoAg computes the e ciency loss due to the strategic nature of the aggregator. We analyze the game between Aand the prosumers with various uncertainty models in DER capacities in Section 4 and leverage these insights to study 3 price of aggregation for illustrative example markets in Section 5. The results demonstrate how uncertainty and the amount of DER integration a ect the PoAg metric. We conclude the paper in Section 6 with remarks and future research directions. Proofs of all mathematical results are provided in the Appendix. 2 The Game between the Prosumers and the DER Aggregator Consider a retail aggregator Awho procures energy from a collection of prosumers N: f1;:::;Ng with DERs and o ers the aggregate supply into the wholesale electricity market. Adoes not own any generation or consumption asset. She purely acts as an intermediary. To procure DER supply, she announces a uniform price at which she aims to buy energy from the prosumers. The latter respond by choosing how much energy each of the prosumers wishes to sell from their DERs
__label__energy	IET Research Journals Accepted by IET Renewable Power Generation Tertiary Regulation of Cascaded Run-of-the-River Hydropower in the Islanded Renewable Power System Considering Multi-Timescale DynamicsISSN 1751-8644 doi: 0000000000 www.ietdl.org Yiwei Qiu1;2Jin Lin1 Feng Liu1Ningyi Dai2Y onghua Song2;1Gang Chen3Lijie Ding3 1State Key Laboratory of Control and Simulation of Power Systems and Generation Equipment, Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100087, China 2State Key Laboratory of Internet of Things for Smart City, University of Macau, Macau 999078, China 3State Grid Sichuan Electric Power Research Institute, Chengdu 610000, China E-mail: linjin tsinghua.edu.cn Abstract: To enable power supply in rural areas and to exploit clean energy, fully renewable power systems consisting of cas- caded run-of-the-river hydropower and volatile energies such as pv and wind are built around the world. In islanded operation mode, the primary and secondary frequency control, i.e., hydro governors and automatic generation control (AGC), are respon- sible for the frequency stability. However, due to limited water storage capacity of run-of-the-river hydropower and river dynamics constraints, without coordination between the cascaded plants, the traditional AGC with ﬁxed participation factors cannot fully exploit the adjustability of cascaded hydropower. When imbalances between the volatile energy and load occur, load shedding can be inevitable. To address this issue, this paper proposes a coordinated tertiary control approach by jointly considering power system dynamics and the river dynamics that couples the cascaded hydropower plants. The timescales of the power system and river dynamics are very different. To unify the multi-timescale dynamics to establish a model predictive controller that coordinates the cascaded plants, the relation between AGC parameters and turbine discharge over a time interval is approximated by a data- based second-order polynomial surrogate model. The cascaded plants are coordinated by optimising AGC participation factors in a receding-horizon manner, and load shedding is minimised. Simulation of a real-life system with real-time pv data collected on site shows the proposed method signiﬁcantly reduces load loss under pv volatility. Nomenclature x, x The nominal initial value and the increment of variable x, i.e.,x x x x,x Lower and upper limits of x x Vector with entries xi !refSystem frequency deviation reference GSet of hydropower generators shSet of sheddable loads PGi Power of the ith hydropower unit PS Power output of volatile energies Pavail S Available volatile energies Ppred SPrediction of volatile energies Pcur S Curtailment of volatile energies PD Load power cGi Participation factor of the ith generator in AGC Psh D Total load shedding Psh Dj Power of the ith sheddable load i Binary variable of the ith sheddable load p , cT G;!ref;Psh D T, vector of tertiary control variables PInj Nodal power injection vector PB Vector of the branch power ﬂow ANet Susceptance-weighted incidence matrix BNet Nodal susceptance matrix Qturb Hi Turbine discharge at the ith hydro plant Qsp HiWater spillage at the ith hydro plant Hup HiUpstream water stage at the ith hydro plantHdown Hi Downstream water stage at the ith hydro plant i Efﬁciency of the ith hydropower unit g Gravity acceleration H,Q Water stage and discharge along the river I0,If River bed and equivalent friction slopes. mSet of monitoring points on the river xR , QT; HT T, river state vector. uR , Qturb HT;Qsp HT T, river control vector zR River boundary condition vector, including upstream inﬂow and downstream stage i( ) Legendre polynomial 1 Introduction In mountain areas such as in Tibet and Sichuan Province in China as well as the plateaus in South Asia and Africa, to enable electrical power supply to the local residents and to exploit clean energy, cas- caded run-of-the-river hydropower plants have been built along river valleys 1 5 . Moreover, in recent years, photovoltaic (pv) and wind plants are built in these areas to further exploit the renewable energy and to compensate for power shortages in dry seasons 2, 6, 7 . The hydroelectric, solar, and wind power make up fully renewable local power systems. A typical example located in Xiaojin County, Sichuan Province, China, is shown in Fig. 1. Among these power systems, some are designed for islanded operation 8, 9 , and some are connected to the external grid via long-distance transmission lines in normal operation mode, but these need to operate in islanded mode during planned or accidental trans- mission line outages, especially those caused by natural disasters in IET Research Journals, pp. 1 13 The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2015 1arXiv:2006.03514v3 math.OC 28 Mar 2021 rural mountain areas 2, 3 . For instance, the Xiaojin system shown in Fig. 1 was forced to operate in islanded mode in June, 2020 due to that a landslide cut off the transmission line to the external grid. In islanded operation mode, considering the volatility of solar, wind, and load power, energy balance and frequency stability are the most important issues 10, 11 . In this situation, due to the lack of support from an external power grid and energy storage systems (ESSs) in rural areas, the primary and secondary control of cascaded hydropower, i.e., the hydro turbine governors and automatic gener- ation control (AGC), are essential to stabilise the frequency against pv wind and load volatilities. But with a high penetration of renew- ables, frequency stability is challenging, as the pv and wind volatility may exceed the adjustability of hydropower units which may cause stability issues. Although by simply disconnecting pv or wind from the islanded grid instability can be completely avoided, it may cause power supply shortage and consequent loss of load. Considering socioeconomic beneﬁts, applying controlled curtailment for smooth- ing renewable power 12 14 and using the hydropower to regulate the system seems to be a better option. Until now, on the topic of using cascaded hydropower to mitigate solar and wind volatility, elaborations have been made by the com- munity, including scheduling 15 17 and online control 18 20 , but these works focus on grid-connected operations. On the other hand, studies on the frequency control of islanded power systems with hydropower focus on the timescale of the electromechanical dynamics, relating
__label__energy	1 Cost-Oriented Load Forecasting Jialun Zhang, Yi Wang, Member, IEEE, and Gabriela Hug, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Accurate load prediction is an effective way to reduce power system operation costs. Traditionally, the mean square error (MSE) is a common-used loss function to guide the training of an accurate load forecasting model. However, the MSE loss function is unable to precisely reﬂect the real costs associated with forecasting errors because the cost caused by forecasting errors in the real power system is probably neither symmetric nor quadratic. To tackle this issue, this paper proposes a generalized cost-oriented load forecasting framework. Speciﬁcally, how to obtain a differentiable loss function that reﬂects real cost and how to integrate the loss function with regression models are studied. The economy and effectiveness of the proposed load forecasting method are veriﬁed by the case studies of an optimal dispatch problem that is built on the IEEE 30-bus system and the open load dataset from the Global Energy Forecasting Competition 2012 (GEFCom2012). Index Terms Load forecasting, asymmetric loss function, data analytics, economic dispatch, unit commitment. I. I NTRODUCTION ACCURATE load prediction is an effective way to reduce the power system operation costs. Both over- and under- forecasts may result in extra operational costs. For the over- forecasting case, the extra costs can be attributed to the start-up of unnecessary units, the purchase of surplus power, and sell- ing surplus power at an unfavorable balance price 1 . For the under-forecasting case, the additional costs may be due to the sub-optimal dispatch, purchase of expensive balancing power, and load shedding 2 . The economic beneﬁt of reducing the load forecasting errors in a generic model was investigated in 3 . It concludes that a 5 forecasting error can be set as an economically acceptable allowance for the forecasting model because a further reduction of forecasting errors does not lead to a noticeable additional economic improvement. The economic impact of forecasting errors was quantiﬁed using three sources in 4 , namely start-up costs, dispatch costs, and outage costs. In 5 , the economic value associated with limited and inaccurate load forecasts in a speciﬁc time frame was determined in a unit commitment problem. A signiﬁcant amount of work has been done in the area of load forecasting, which includes both deterministic forecasting 6 , 7 , 8 and probabilistic forecasting 9 , 10 , 11 . The forecasting objectives range from predicting the consumption of an individual consumer 12 to the total aggregated load of the whole system 13 . Traditionally, the regression models for deterministic load forecasting are trained using the metric of mean square error (MSE) loss function, with the implication that forecasting errors, identical in magnitude, cause the same and quadratic costs. Apparently, this assumption is not accu- rate, especially for cases where asymmetric costs are observed for forecasting errors in the same magnitude but with opposite sign 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 . Thus, the forecasting errors are not able to precisely quantify the economic value among different forecasting models.With the discrepancy observed between the economic value and the forecasting accuracy metrics, several works studied the possibility of incorporating cost-oriented loss functions into the regression models. An asymmetric monetary loss function was proposed in 15 to guide the day-ahead load forecasting. On this basis, a genetic algorithm (GA) was applied to update the parameters of the radial basis function (RBF) network with a discontinuous and non-symmetric loss function. Similarly, an asymmetric error penalty function was designed in 16 based on the simulation results from the day-ahead unit commitment (DAUC) problem. The derived non-differentiable penalty function was optimized through GA for the combined backpropagation and RBF neural networks. Nevertheless, the error measurement between the forecasted loads and the actual loads over the 24 hours was averaged, resulting in an inexact measurement of the loss function. In addition to load forecasting, a general cost-oriented wind power forecasting model was formulated in 19 by integrating a predeﬁned loss function with a boosted regression tree model. However, the loss function was designed based on a simple retail market which likely does not scale to complex scenarios. Another asymmetric loss function for solar power forecasting was studied in 20 , where the loss function was formulated by adding a linear term and a cubic term as perturbations to the MSE loss function. The coefﬁcients of the two additional terms control the degree of asymmetry of the loss function. Nonetheless, the asymmetric loss function was still deﬁned from a statistical perspective and may not fully reﬂect the real cost of the system. The current research on cost-oriented load forecasting is still limited, and the two following main issues are not properly addressed. First, the asymmetric loss function is generally deﬁned for only one speciﬁc application, and there is no general framework or approach to obtain the cost-oriented loss function. Second, differentiability is not incorporated as an important characteristic for the cost-oriented loss function, which limits the usage of the respective loss functions with traditional regression models. To address these two issues, this paper presents a generalized cost-oriented load forecast- ing framework that can be divided into the three stages of loss function generation, approximation, and integration into regression models. The losses caused by forecasting errors are ﬁrst generated by a large number of simulations. On this basis, a differentiable piecewise loss function is mathematically approximated and derived. Finally, the differentiable piecewise loss function can be integrated with all regression models that can be trained by gradient-based optimization methods. Hence, this paper makes the following main contributions: 1) A generalized framework to quantify losses with respect to different forecasting errors is proposed. Speciﬁcally, an example model is formulated to generate the loss data associated with forecasting errors by comparing thearXiv:2107.01861v1 eess.SY 5 Jul 2021 2 Fig. 1: Solution framework for cost-oriented load forecasting. day-ahead economic dispatch (DAED) problem and the intraday power balance (IPB) process. 2) A fully differentiable cost-oriented loss function is de- rived by applying an
__label__energy	1 Theoretic G uide for Using P hotonic G lass es as C olor ed Cover s for Solar Energy Harvesting Zhenpeng Li , Sinan Li , Tao Ma Engineering Research Centre of Solar Energy and Refrigeration of MOE, School of Mechanical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240 , People s Republic of China Correspond ing author: Tao Ma ( tao.ma sjtu.edu.cn ) A bstract The increasing demand for renewable energy is promoting technologies that integrate so lar energy harvesting material s with the human living environment , s uch as building - integrated photovoltaics (BIPVs). This places requirements on developing colored covers with a trade - off between efficiency and aesthetics , providing a new stage for the large - scale application of structural color technolog ies. Here in this study, we have investigated the theoretic feasibility of em ploying the photonic glas s , a random packing of monodisperse dielectric microspheres , as the c olored c over for s olar e nergy h arvesting . Based on numerous optical simulations , we have evaluated the color and average solar transmissivity (A S T) of the photonic glass es with varying parameters. Results show that using non - absorbing microspheres with relatively high refr active index , about 3 μm thick photonic glass es could enable colors with lightness over 50 while keeping A S T at around 80 . Besides, we demonstrate that due to the short - range structural correlation , photonic glasses could generate purple, blue, cyan, light green , and grey colors , but cannot help with yellow and red color hues. Finally, t he effects of several enhancement methods are clarified, and possible way s for e xpanding the color range are demonstrated . These results provide a comprehensive guide t o the practical implementations of structural color using photonic glasses, particularly in the colorization of solar energy materials. K ey words : photonic glass, disordered photonics, colloidal assembly , structural color, solar energy 2 Introduction Due to the low intensity, using solar energy to power a sustainable future requires large areas of land . But the land is a s carce r esource in the human living environment, particularly in cities. Th is stimulates great interest in technologies that could integrate solar energy harvesting into our daily life on a large scale , for example, building - integrate thermal collector and building - integrated photovoltaic (BIPV). 1, 2 F or maximizing efficiency, the most typical feature of artificial solar energy harvesting devices like solar thermal (ST) collector s and solar photovoltaic s (PV) is their nearly black appearance. However, a black wall or roof is unpopular with most people, th erefore in this scenario , attractive aesthetics are just as important as high efficiency. 3 - 6 This places great demand on developing color ful cover plates for ST and P V , which should promise a decent trade - off between efficiency and a esthetic s , and thus should have the following core features: 1) s elective visible light (VIS) reflection ; 2) negligible solar radiation absorption ; 3) high near - infrared light (NIR) transmission . 7 Unfortunately, due to their absorption of non - reflected VIS or strong NIR reflecti on, common colorant materials like pigment s and dye s are generally not compliant . 8 In contrast to color by selective absorption, structure color is generated by the scattering, d iffraction , and i nterference of ligh t in micro - and nan o - structure s . 9 - 11 This makes it possible to achieve colors covering the entire visible spectrum with solar - transparent materials. 12 - 14 However, although periodic photonic structures with long - range order could sho w strong selective reflection and vivid colors, the produc tion process is generally material - consuming and time - consuming, preventing large - scale application s . In this context, the amorphous structural color might be a better candidate , which requires only random structures with short - range correlations . 15 - 17 Besides, the i sotropic structure makes color ang le - independent , and appear s pretty close to that prod uce d by absorbing pigments and dyes. 18, 19 In recent years , t he artificial construction of amorphous structural color materials has seen rapid development , especially those made by self - assemble d dielectric microspheres, referred to as photonic glass es . 20 - 22 Previous studies have demonstrated the feasibility of replacing traditional pigments with photonic glass es or photonic glass es wi th light - absorbing additive s , in which the followin g advantages are often highlighted : long - term stability , environmental friendl in ess, and dynamic tunability . 23 - 25 While in most cases , another advantage of all - dielectric photonic glass es for colorization is not explored , i.e., negligible absorption and high NIR transmission. In this context, w e envisioned that photonic glass es and solar energy harvesting materials would be a win - win combination . Recently w e reported mass - producible and high - efficiency colored PVs using the photonic glass self - assembled by colloidal ZnS microspheres , p reliminar ily validat ing the ide a. 26 T o guide practica l applications in the 3 fu ture , the relationship between structure, color, and solar radiation transmittance needs to be figured out . Figure 1 . (A) Schematic diagram of using a thin film of photonic glass encapsulated in polymers t o colorize solar energy harvesting materials. (B) Schematic showing a photonic glass and the parameters that determine its optical properties. (C) T he light scattering from a phonic glass assembly could be regarded as a superposition of Mie scattering by a single particle and interference of the light scattered from correlated particles . A s a c olored c over for s olar e nergy h arvesting materials like solar cells
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	1 Impacts of EPA s Finalized Power Plant Greenhouse Gas Standard s Authors: John Bistline1 , Aaron Bergman2, Geoffrey Blanford1, Maxwell Brown3, Dallas Burtraw2, Maya Domeshek2, Allen Fawcett4, Anne Hamilton5, Gokul Iyer4, Jesse Jenkins6, Ben King7, Hannah Kolus7, Amanda Levin8, Qian Luo6, Kevin Rennert2, Molly Robertson2, Nicholas Roy2, Ethan Russell2, Daniel Shawhan2, Daniel Steinberg5, Anna van Brummen7, Grace Van Horn9, Aranya Venkates h1, John Weyant10, Ryan Wiser11, Alicia Zhao4 1 EPRI ; Palo Alto, CA, USA. 2 Resources for the Future; Washington DC, USA . 3 Colorado School of Mines ; Golden, CO, USA. 4 Center for Global Sustainability, University of Maryland; College Park, MD, USA . 5 National Renewable Energy Laboratory; Golden, CO, USA. 6 Princeton University; Princeton, NJ, USA. 7 Rhodium Group; Oakland, CA , USA. 8 Natural Resources Defense Council; Washington DC, USA. 9 Center for Applied Environmental Law and Polic y; Washington DC, USA. 10 Stanford University; Stanford, CA, USA. 11 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; Berkeley, CA, USA. Corresponding author. Email: jbistline epri.com . Accepted version of the manuscript: Bistline, et al. (202 5). Impacts of EPA s Finalized Power Plant Greenhouse Gas Standard s. Science . The manuscript is available at: http: www.science.org doi 10.1126 science.adt5665 2 Introduction The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA ) subsidizes the deployment of clean electricity, hydrogen production , and carbon capture and storage (CCS), which could enable additional actions by other federal, state, and local policymakers to reduce emissions . Power plant rules finalized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2024 are one such example of complementary policies . The rules establish emissions intensity standards, not technology mandates, meaning power plant owners can choose from a range of technologies and control options provided that emissions standards are met. This flexibility makes electricity systems modelin g important to under stand the potential effects of these regulations. We report below a multi -model analysis of the EPA power plant rules that can provide timely information, including for other countries and states, on emissions impacts, policy design for electricity decarbo nization, power sector investments and retirements, cost impacts, and load growth. We also discuss related technical, political, and legal uncertainties . The rules for new gas and existing coal power plants are pursuant to Section 111 of the Clean Air Act, following earlier efforts to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from existing power plants like the Clean Power Plan and Affordable Clean Energy rules , which faced legal challenges or were repealed after changes in the administratio n (1). The rules require power plants to meet emissions thresholds that vary by the plants retirement dates and operational characteristics . The emission rate limits are based on the best system of emission reduction (BSER), which is CCS with 90 capture for existing coal -fired plants operating past 2038 and 90 CCS for new gas - fired plants in 2032 if operating with over 40 utilization (generating at least 40 of their annual maximum capacity) (see supplementary materials (SM) ). While the emissions limits are based on specific technological assumptions, power plants can meet or exceed these limits on their average CO 2 emissions per unit of electricity generated using a range of options, which could include CCS, cofiring with lower -emitting fuel s such as natural gas at coal plants, or efficiency improvements. EPA also created additional subcategories with different thresholds, which means that not all plants are subject to CCS -based standards . The rules intersect with other power sector trends growing electricity use from data centers and electrified services , targets to reach net -zero emissions, political uncertainty about federal climate legislation , and grid transitions toward lower -emitting resources . Although coal use has been declin ing since 2011 (Fig. S5 ), coal represented nearly half of U.S. power sector CO 2 in 2023 despite being only 16 of generation. Our multi -model analysis delivers timely information on: Emissions impacts of EPA s power plant rules : The i nternational community and U.S. government are assessing progress toward Paris Agreement goal s (2) and how much work is left for other federal, state, and company actions and for other sectors after account ing for these rules. Power sector emissions also affect the timing of IRA tax credit expiration s (3-4). Policy design for electricity decarbonization: The U.S. electric sector is the second highest greenhouse gas emitting sector in the world s second highest emitting country (5). Insights about the cost -effectiveness of policy and technology strateg ies may be relevant for other countries and subnational jurisdictions , since committed emissions from existing power plants may jeopardize global climate targets without early retirements ( 6) and due to the central roles of decarbonizing electricity and electrifyin g end uses for net -zero efforts ( 7). 3 Power sector investments and retirements: This information is valuable to s tates as they draft plans to comply with EPA s standards for existing coal plants (which are due in May 2026) , technology developers and electric company planners evaluating responses, system operators considering reliability implications , and local governments understanding impacts of plant closures on jobs and tax revenue. Cost impacts: Analysis on policy compliance costs and electricity prices can i nform the public about potential impacts of the rules and legal challenges . Load growth: Utilities , policymakers , and the public are looking to understand system implications of rapid electricity demand growt h due to data centers, industrial facilities, and electrification of vehicles and other end -uses (8) and how these effects could change with emissions regulations. Modeling the EPA Rules This analysis uses nine models of the electric sector and energy system s to understand potential impacts of EPA s finalized power plant rules . By aligning key assumptions and running harmonized scenarios, model comparisons like ours can identify common findings about impacts and quantify levels of disagreement across participating models . We also compare EPA s Regulatory Impact Analysis for the rules (9) with our results , thereby providing a richer
__label__energy	arXiv:2411.11245v2 physics.chem-ph 20 Dec 2024Extension of the Active-Orbital-Based and Adaptive CC( P;Q) Approaches to Excited Electronic States: Application to Potential Cuts o f Water Karthik Gururangana, Jun Shena, Piotr Piecucha,b, aDepartment of Chemistry, Michigan State University, East L ansing, Michigan 48824, USA bDepartment of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State Univer sity, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA Abstract We report the ﬁrst study using active-orbital-based and ada ptive CC( P;Q) approaches to describe excited electronic states. These CC( P;Q) methodologies are applied, alongside their completely re normalized (CR) coupled-cluster (CC) and equation-of-motion (EOM) CC counterparts, to reco ver the ground- and excited-state potential cuts of the water molecule along the O H bond-breaking coordinate obta ined in the parent CC EOMCC calculations with a full treatment of singles, doubles, and triples (CCSDT EOMCCSDT). We demonstrate that the active-orbital-based and adaptive CC( P;Q) approaches closely approximate the CCSDT EOMCCSDT data using signiﬁcantly reduced computational costs while improving the CR-CC and CR-EOMCC energetics in stretched regions of the O H bond- breaking potentials. Keywords: Coupled-Cluster Theory, Equation-of-Motion Coupled-Clu ster Formalism, Completely Renormalized Coupled-Cluster Approaches, Active-Space Coupled-Clust er Methods, Active-orbital-based CC( P;Q) Approaches, Adaptive CC( P;Q) Methodology, Ground- and Excited-State Potential Surfac es of Water 1. Introduction The development of accurate and computationally practical methods for describing excited electronic states and potential energy surfaces (PESs) of molecules is a vital com ponent of quantum chemistry. This task becomes es- pecially challenging when examining excited states domina ted by two- or other many-electron transitions and larger regions of excited-state PESs, which are relevant to spectr oscopic and photochemical applications. It is nowadays wel l established that the excited-state extensions of the coupl ed-cluster (CC) theory 1 3 belonging to the equation-of- motion (EOM) 4, 5 , linear-response (LR) 6 9 , and symmet ry-adapted-cluster conﬁguration interaction (CI) 10 hierarchies are capable of providing reliable and systemat ically improvable description of excited electronic state s using polynomial computational steps within a conceptuall y straightforward single-reference (SR) ansatz. In the EOMCC framework, which is a focus of the present study, the exact excited states of the N-electron sys- tem are deﬁned as Ψµ angbracketright Rµ Ψ0 angbracketright, where Ψ0 angbracketright eT Φ angbracketrightis the ground-state CC wave function, with Φ angbracketrightdesignating the reference determinant that serves as a Fermi vacuum, and T summationtextN n 1TnandRµ summationtextN n 0Rµ,n rµ,01 summationtextN n 1Rµ,n (µ 0) are the cluster and EOM excitation operators, with TnandRµ,nrepresenting their n-body components ( 1is the identity operator). The EOMCC approximations obtained by truncating TandRµat a given many-body rank provide a transparent route for computing increasingly acc urate and systematically improvable excited-state energe t- ics and properties, but the leading and most practical EOMCC approach with singles and doubles (EOMCCSD) 5 , obtained by truncating TandRµat their two-body components, cannot handle multireferenc e (MR) correlation e ﬀects characterizing excited states dominated by two or other man y-electron transitions and excited-state potentials outs ide the Franck Condon region, especially when chemical bonds a re signiﬁcantly stretched or broken 11 13 . In fact, EOMCCSD is not fully quantitative in describing singly exci ted states either 14 . In general, higher-level EOMCC Corresponding author Email address: piecuch chemistry.msu.edu (Piotr Piecuch) Preprint submitted to Chemical Physics Letters December 24 , 2024 methodologies that incorporate TnandRµ,ncomponents with n 2, such as the EOMCC approach with a full treat- ment of singles, doubles, and triples (EOMCCSDT) 11, 12, 15 , in which TandRµare truncated at T3andRµ,3, respectively, are necessary to obtain an accurate and more r obust description. Inspired by Refs. 13, 16 , in this work we focus on convergin g the ground- and excited-state PESs of the water molecule along the O H bond-breaking coordinate correspon ding to the H 2O H OH dissociation obtained with EOMCCSDT and its ground-state CCSDT counterpart 17, 18 . A s shown in this study, the CCSDT EOMCCSDT water potentials are nearly exact, closely matching the ful l CI data reported in Refs. 13, 16 , but the application of th e full CCSDT and EOMCCSDT methods, especially when larger mol ecules and basis sets are considered, is hindered by the expensive computational steps that scale as N8with system size N. To address this concern, a variety of approximate EOMCC and LRCC schemes aimed at reducing the pro hibitive computational costs of the EOMCCSDT and LRCCSDT calculations have been developed. Among them ar e methods that rely on perturbative arguments to correct the EOMCCSD or LRCCSD calculations for T3andRµ,3eﬀects in an iterative or noniterative fashion 19 22 , but these kinds of approaches, while accurate for excited st ates dominated by one-electron transitions, struggle when the more MR excited states dominated by two-electron transi tions are examined. The newer triples corrections to EOMCCSD 13, 14, 23 28 , such as the left-eigenstate comple tely renormalized (CR) EOMCC approach abbreviated as CR-EOMCC(2,3) 26, 27, 29 and its rigorously size-inten siveδ-CR-EOMCC(2,3) modiﬁcation 14, 28 that rely on the moment energy expansions 25 27, 29 34 , are more rob ust in this regard 13, 14, 35 , but they may still encounter diﬃculties when T3andRµ,3correlations become larger, nonperturbative, and strongl y coupled to their lower-rank T1,T2,Rµ,1, and Rµ,2counterparts 29, 36, 37 . This becomes evident when examin ing stretched regions of certain excited-state water potentials with CR-EOMCC(2 ,3) 13 (cf. Sec. 3.3). A robust solution to the above deﬁciencies of the perturbati ve corrections to EOMCCSD and their CR-EOMCC(2,3) and similar counterparts is o ﬀered by the CC( P;Q) framework 29, 36 40 , which generalizes the original CR- CC 26, 30, 31, 33, 34, 41 and CR-EOMCC 14, 25 28 approaches t o unconventional truncations in the TandRµop- erators that incorporate the leading contributions to the TnandRµ,ncomponents with n 2 into the iterative parts of the computations, correcting the resulting energies for the missing correlation e ﬀects of interest using moment expansions similar to those used in CR-CC EOMCC. In particular, the CC( P;Q) formalism provides a ﬂexible and powerful framework for
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Getting more with less? Why repowering onshore wind farms does not always lead to more wind power generation a German case study Jan Frederick Unnewehr1 , Eddy Jalbout1, Christopher Jung2, Dirk Schindler2and Anke Weidlich1 1Department of Sustainable Systems Engineering, University of Freiburg, Emmy-Noether-Strasse 2, D-79110 Freiburg 2Environmental Meteorology, University of Freiburg, Germany Corresponding author: jan.frederick.unnewehr inatech.uni-freiburg.de Abstract The best wind locations are nowadays often occupied by old, less e cient and relatively small wind turbines. Many of them will soon reach the end of their operating lifetime, or lose nancial support. Therefore, repowering comes to the fore. However, social acceptance and land use restrictions have been under constant change since the initial expansions, which makes less area available for new turbines, even on existing sites. For the example of Germany, this study assesses the repowering potential for onshore wind energy in high detail, on the basis of regionally di erentiated land eligibility criteria. The results show that under the given regional criteria, repowering will decrease both operating capacity and annual energy yield by roughly 40 compared to the status quo. This is because around half of the wind turbines are currently located in re- stricted areas, given newly enacted exclusion criteria. Sensitivity analyses on the exclusion criteria show that the minimum distance to discontinuous urban fabric is the most sensitive criterion in determining the number of turbines that can be repowered. As regulations on this can vary substantially across di erent regions, the location-speci c methodology chosen here can assess the repowering potential more realistically than existing approaches. Keywords: Repowering; Wind energy; Wind farm; Wind turbine, Siting strategy; Wind energy potential Preprint submitted to Journal of Renewable Energy February 3, 2022arXiv:2202.00945v1 physics.soc-ph 2 Feb 2022 1. Introduction To mitigate climate change and limit human impact on the environment, the European Commission published the rst strategy for promoting renewable energy (RE) in 1997 1 . Based on this, the European Union (EU) set the rst RE targets to its member states in 2001 2 . In Germany, the expansion of RE capacities was promoted by the Renewable Energy Sources Act in 2000. While the share of RE in the gross electricity consumption in Germany grew remarkably since then, its further expansion can be impeded by land scarcity, i. e. the con ict between energy usage, agriculture, nature protection, settlements or other potential land uses. Social barriers can further reduce the potential areas for RE capacities. Given these con icts, and given the situation that the best wind locations today are often occupied by old, thus less e cient and relatively small wind turbines (WTs), repowering becomes an interesting option for further capacity expansion. Repowering refers to the replacement of older WTs with larger, more powerful, state-of-the-art systems, making the total number of turbines decrease as the total output of the farm increases 3 . Regional exclusion criteria for wind power plants limit the potential for on- shore wind repowering. Since the spatial exclusion conditions for WTs con- tinuously change, 47.3 of WTs currently operating in Germany are located outside of the designated areas for wind energy 4 . Repowering of WTs on such sites is very di cult or impossible. This aspect is often neglected in the discus- sion about repowering. The focus of this study is, therefore, on assessing the potential for repowering of onshore wind energy under regionally di erentiated land use restrictions, for the example of Germany. In this study, repowering is performed under consideration of the state- speci c WT installation exclusion criteria in Germany. Additionally, an as- sessment is conducted to evaluate the sensitivity of the most critical exclusion criteria on the number of WTs for which repowering is allowed. The impor- tance of repowering is put into perspective of land scarcity, while considering 2 all recent site-speci c restriction criteria that a ect the de nition of available areas for WT installation. Based on geographical data, the objectives of this study were to analyze the techno-ecological repowering potential, given land eligibility and the capacity di erences of old versus new wind power plants, and to assess what exclusion criteria restrict repowering most for onshore wind power installations. The key novelties in determining repowering potential are the following: New three step approach to assess the onshore wind repowering potential with higher accuracy than existing approaches. First study that uses legal exclusion criteria in high spatial resolution, including both nation-wide and region-speci c regulations, for the case of Germany. High level of detail of results obtained, given the remarkably compre- hensive and up-to-date data set of existing WTs used for applying the repowering potential method. The paper proceeds as follows: Section 2 provides a review of the literature that covers methodological developments in relation to wind energy potential and repowering analysis. In Sec. 3, the data used for the study is presented. Section 4 describes the implementation of the adopted methodology for assessing the repowering potential. Sec. 5 presents and discusses the scenario results. The limitations of the study are discussed in Sec. 6, which also concludes the paper and provides an outlook to further research challenges. 2. Literature review The wind energy potential describes the quali cation of an area for power generation from wind. The literature distinguishes ve di erent potentials: the theoretical, geographical, technical, economic and realizable potential 5 . Each one reduces the size of the previous potential, due to certain limitations, as 3 shown in Fig. 1. The theoretical potential describes the amount of available wind energy within a given region and time. This is narrowed down to the geo- graphical potential, which only uses areas that are available for the generation of energy from the wind, accounting for restrictions such as nature conserva- tion areas, urban fabric, roads or other land uses. The technical potential is the amount of energy provided by wind turbines that are installed within the available areas, taking into account technical speci cations such as turbine e - ciency, spacing and wake e ects. Financial perspectives for
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	1 Diffusion Model Based Probabilistic Day-ahead Load Forecasting Ding Lin, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Han Guo, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Jianhui Wang, Fellow, IEEE Abstract Accurate probabilistic load forecasting is crucial for maintaining the safety and stability of power systems. However, the mainstream approach, multi-step prediction, must be improved by cumulative errors and latency issues, which limits its effectiveness in probabilistic day-ahead load forecasting (PDALF). To overcome these challenges, we introduce DALNet, a novel denoising diffusion model designed to generate load curves rather than relying on direct prediction. By shifting the focus to curve generation, DALNet captures the complex distribution of actual load time-series data under specific conditions with greater fidelity. To further enhance DALNet, we propose the temporal multi-scale attention block (TMSAB), a mechanism designed to integrate both positional and temporal information for improved forecasting precision. Furthermore, we utilize kernel density estimation (KDE) to reconstruct the distribution of generated load curves and employ KL divergence to compare them with the actual data distribution. Experimental results demonstrate that DALNet excels in load forecasting accuracy and offers a novel perspective for other predictive tasks within power systems. Index Terms Diffusion model, probabilistic forecasting, atten- tion mechanism. I. I NTRODUCTION DAY-ahead electrical load forecasting plays a key role in balancing electricity supply and demand, offering valuable insights for planning, construction, and operational decision-making in power systems. With the increasing inte- gration of renewable energy, flexible resources, and advance- ments in electricity markets and demand response mecha- nisms, load forecasting has become more complex due to heightened volatility and uncertainty. In this evolving land- scape, accurate and reliable probabilistic day-ahead load fore- casting serves as a crucial tool for mitigating uncertainties and ensuring safe operational control within the power system. Currently, day-ahead forecasting can be broadly categorized into three methods. The first method is rolling forecasting, the second involves building individual models for each time point, and the third is multi-step prediction. The earliest methods for rolling forecasts employed statistical models like the autoregressive integrated moving average model 1 and the multiple linear regression model 2 . These linear models often need to catch up in capturing nonlinear relationships accurately. To address this issue, researchers have explored machine learning models such as support vector machines 3 and random forests 4 . Despite their advantages, traditional machine learning algorithms sometimes need help modeling complex nonlinear relationships and managing large datasets effectively. Consequently, neural networks have gained signif- icant attention due to their superior performance in handlingcomplex nonlinear mappings. For instance, Bi-directional long short-term memory (Bi-LSTM) 5 and feedback neural net- work 6 have been employed for rolling forecasts. Rolling forecasts often focus on point predictions and face the issue of error accumulation. Researchers have started modeling each time step individually for day-ahead load fore- casting to address these challenges. 7 developed 24 multiple linear regression models, one for each hour of the day, for day-head forecasting. In addition, scholars often use neural networks to implement this method, such as the attention mechanism 8 . Furthermore, the second day-ahead load fore- casting method can be easily extended to probabilistic fore- casting methods through techniques like quantile regression (QR) 9 and KDE 10 . Y . Wang et al. 11 extended LSTM- based point forecasting to the quantile regression LSTM to handle the non-stationary and stochastic features of individual consumers. Taking the uncertainty of low-voltage load data into account to improve the accuracy of the probabilistic forecasting, Z. Cao et al. 12 proposed a hybrid ensemble learning model based on the deep belief network. X. Liu et al. 13 proposed an ordinary differential equation network combined with QR to capture the uncertainties. M. Sun et al. 14 proposed a probabilistic day-ahead net load forecasting method that combined Bayesian theory and LSTM to capture the epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty of load data. Although the second method can avoid the accumulation of prediction errors, independent modeling of each time point needs to pay attention to the relationships between different times of the day, which is a significant limitation for capturing intra-day load patterns with apparent regularities. The third method, multi-step prediction, has emerged to address this issue and has become the mainstream forecasting approach. By utilizing a transformer to capture the periodicity in load data, B. Jiang et al. 15 achieved multi-step forecasting. To improve the accuracy of day-ahead load forecasting of the Transformer, K. Qu et al. 16 proposed a novel model excelling in predictions for special days such as weekends and holidays. For day-ahead probabilistic load forecasting, 17 first utilized ensemble learning for point forecasting, followed by Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods to generate the distribution of the forecasted day and achieve probabilistic forecasting. 18 leveraged a hybrid approach, combining Convolutional Neural Networks and Gated Recurrent Units for load forecasting, followed by QR to achieve probabilistic prediction. Gaussian Mixture Model 19 and KDE 20 are also used to achieve probabilistic forecasting. Although researchers widely apply multi-step predictionarXiv:2503.06697v1 eess.SY 9 Mar 2025 2 methods, these methods inherently experience latency issues, which become particularly pronounced when dealing with rapidly changing data 21 . Therefore, new prediction methods are needed to address the shortcomings of error accumulation, lack of consideration for intra-day correlations, and the latency issue in the three methods above. To this end, we propose a prediction method based on conditional diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM), a generative model, to generate load data for day-ahead forecasting directly. DDPMs have demonstrated remarkable abilities in learning complex, high-dimensional data distributions and generating realistic samples. By adding Gaussian noise in a forward process and then learning to reverse it, DDPMs can effectively recover the original data distribution, making them highly effective for generative tasks. The decision to use DDPMs stems from their unique ca- pabilities. Unlike rolling forecasting, DDPMs can generate an entire curve without depending on the generated value from the previous time step, which avoids error accumulation. Additionally, by considering the interconnections between intra-day loads, DDPMs establish a probabilistic distribution for the entire day to address intra-day
__label__energy	1 Environmental impact of terwatt scale Si-photovoltaics Satish Vitta Department of Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Mumbai 400076; India. Solar photovoltaics which converts renewable solar energy into electricity have become prominent as a measure to decarbonize electricity generation. The operational carbon footprint of this technology is significantly lower compared to electricity generation using conventional non-renewable fuels. The operationalization of photovoltaic electricity generation however results in significant emissions which are loaded upfront into the atmosphere. An analysis of the embodied energy in Si solar panels manufacturing and installation, and associated CO2 emissions clearly show their global warming potential. Installation of 10 TWp capacity requires 150 Exa Joules of energy and results in 7 to 13 GTons of emissions depending on the embodied energy mix. Particulate and other gaseous emissions as well as water consumption will be additional. These are significant emissions requiring development of alternate low carbon footprint manufacturing technologies and clearly shows the flip side of recent prediction of Terawatt scale photovoltaics.4 The phenomenon of global warming is well underway with the global mean surface temperature increasing by 1.2 C compared to the pre-industrial average value and increasing at an alarming rate.1,2 Part of this global warming is due to the total global electricity generation which is at 26,730 TWh in the year 2018 and growing at an average rate of 3.3 .3 This global electricity demand has been projected to increase steadily reaching 40,000 TWh by the year 2050 with a possible increase to 100,000 TWh, depending on the electricity consumption pattern changes due to increased electrification policies around the world.4,5 In order to decarbonize electricity generation, it is being prescribed to shift to electricity generation from renewable resources. Towards this goal, as much as 25 or more of the total electricity generation is anticipated to be generated by solar photovoltaics.5 This will propel solar photovoltaics (PV) into terawatt league with the capacity requirement anywhere between 20 TW to 50 TW by the year 2050. Currently, the installed capacity of solar PV is 590 GWp and every year an additional 180 GWp capacity is being added.6,7 According to International Renewable Energy Agency projection, the installed capacity is expected to reach 8.519 TWp by the year 2050. This corresponds to a cumulative annual growth rate of 9.5 , Figure 1 and this installed capacity falls short of the projected requirement of 20 TW to 50 TW. In order to reach the projected requirement, the installed capacity has to grow at rates of 12 or higher as shown in Figure 1. Realization of these decarbonization goals therefore necessitates large scale capacity building at high growth rates which implies that solar panels manufacturing capabilities will also have to be increased significantly. Si-photovoltaics: Several materials such as Si, CdTe, GaAs and CIGS along with others such as dye-sensitized solar cells and perovskites have been known to have the ability to convert solar energy into electrical energy with varying degrees of efficiency. The most prominent among 2 them however has been Si, either in monocrystalline or multicrystalline form. This is because it has been extensively studied and understood for the past several decades and is highly stable for long periods of time, typically 25 years.8,9 Technology exists to scale up production and installation to TW levels within a short period of time. These factors make it the dominant market leader with almost 95 of installed solar panels being made of Si. A complete replacement of Si modules is therefore not expected to take place in the foreseeable future. A typical Si based PV module is made of several different materials metals to polymers to ceramics: Al, Cu, Ag, Pb-containing solder, ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA), Tedlar, glass and Al-frame apart from Si which is the main element. These modules in ground-based units are typically mounted on steel and concrete structures. The typical land area required to install these modules varies from 20.235 m2 per kWp to 40.47 m2 per kWp depending on geographical location.10,11 The land area requirement to install 10 TWp therefore can vary from 0.2 MKm2 to 0.4 MKm2 and increases depending on the actual installed capacity. It should be noted here that to derive the maximum benefit in terms of solar energy conversion, they should be installed in high solar insolence locations which are located mainly around the equator. Apart from the large high solar insolence land area requirement, creation of these solar power plants requires materials such as Si, Al, Cu, Ag, Steel, Tedlar, glass and so on which are not naturally occurring. If we just consider Si, the main ingredient, its abundant in nature in the form of SiO2 (sand) and silicates, but not in the highly pure elemental form Si, which is required in the PV device. The oxide SiO2 can be reduced to Si using a series of reduction and purification processes. These processes however are extremely environment intensive in nature, i.e., require sand, coal, energy and water, and the processing steps result in significant gaseous and particulate emissions. Similarly, the other materials required for putting together a Si PV module are also not naturally occurring and need extensive processing before they can be used. The environmental foot print in terms of embodied energy, i.e., energy required to process raw materials into final form and gaseous emissions, CO2 associated with these processes for the different materials is given Table 1. Also given is the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, HHI for the different elements which signifies the market concentration and their future availability based on reserves. The absolute quantity of these materials required to install different solar capacities as given in Table 1, clearly shows that the environmental impact of these materials is not insignificant and needs to be considered while assessing the clean credentials of solar PV. Embodied energy, emissions and environmental impact: The embodied energy and emissions are strong functions of geographical location where the panels are manufactured as the electricity generation mix from non-renewable and renewable resources is different in different countries. These
__label__energy	On Large Ground Station Antennas as Potential Radar Targets for Biomass Cornelis G. M. van t Klooster,(1)Arnold van Ardenne(2), (1)parttime Eindhoven University of Technology, Email: kvtklooster gmail.com, C.G.v.t.Klooster tue.nl (2)parttime Astron, Oude Hoogeveensedijk 4, 7991 PD Dwingeloo, NL, Email: Ardenne astron.nl Abstract Radio-telescopes or ground-station antennas can, if pointed, act as a radar target with high radar cross-section (RCS). Space-based Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data conﬁrmed it at5:3GHz for a modiﬁed ground-station antenna. Operational ground-station antennas cannot be modiﬁed. The latter antennas might operate at frequencies well above the radar band. The radar signal could be scattered with high RCS from such an antenna, with less inﬂuence due to a load (receiver). The antenna geometry should be precisely known to derive its RCS. BIOMASS SAR operates near 435 MHz (P-band). Results are given, also for BIOMASS antenna itself. Large antennas in an array as in Westerbork are of potential interest, located on an East-West line, nearly perpendicular to ascending and descending polar orbits. Related material is discussed. I. I NTRODUCTION A recent paper 1 discussed calibration aspects for BIOMASS. Its SAR will operate in a 6 MHz band near 435 MHz 2 . Radio-telescope antennas have been mentioned as radar target of opportunity with a requirement for antenna pointing but it has not been elaborated beyond one sentence in 1 . This paper intends to provide additional information and suggests subjects for further investigation. Ground station antennas have been mentioned 3 as potential target for the SAR of the European Remote sensing Satellite (ERS) though with an uncertainty for the RCS value. There was a ﬁrst mentioning of Westerbork radio telescope antennas (Fig. 1) in an internal memo in Estec Antenna Section in 1985. A potential additional one-way pattern measurement was mentioned for a part of ERS SAR elevation pattern, with different antennas in the East-West interferometer array. It has not been elaborated further at the time. A development of active transponders has been undertaken for ERS 4 . Dedicated antennas were needed with stringent side- lobe requirements derived at Estec to cope with direct and bi-static scattering effects nearby the transponder location. It led to a small, low side-lobe level antenna 5 developed by ERA in UK. A very good absolute accuracy resulted for the SAR of ERS following a calibration campaign. The SAR has been used for assessment of RCS of ground-station antennas in Russia, at the time permitted by the ERS mission manager. First results have been presented in the CEOS working group meetings in Moscow 7 and at Estec 8 . The type of target was expected to be used also for a Russian SAR on the Priroda platform on MIR station. Further investigations conﬁrmed RCS stability Fig. 1. Westerbork radio-telescope. (Copyright Astron 19 ). of a ground-station antenna observed with ERS. Interesting results were reported 6 but for a modiﬁed antenna, see Fig. 2. The derived RCS stability is shown, see Fig. 3 (from 6 ). A simple scattering structure is noticed in the focal area: just a small ﬂat square plate. Such antenna modiﬁcation is not allowed in an operating antenna. Such a plate assists to extend an angular domain for a high mono-static RCS value, but with limitations also. It just so happens that such a conﬁguration scenario compares with a focal plane scenario as present in a Westerbork antenna. The use of ground-station antennas as a potential target came back again during the start of initial investigations of a potential P-band SAR mission. Suggestions have been put forward in 14 , 15 . The argument is that many operating ground-station antennas are below cut-off at P-band fre- quency. The antennas can offer potentially a large mono-static RCS with their scattering properties in lower bands, which are less modiﬁed by receiver reﬂection properties. Moreover, such a target beneﬁts from antenna stability and pointing properties (designed for the shorter wavelength). SAR data have been collected at 5:3GHz to explore the subject again 14 , 15 but really P-band data are needed. Initial estimations have been derived using Physical Optics (PO) 15 . Results were also derived with the Method of Moment (MOM, 11 , 12 ) but based on limited geometrical information. Nowadays various tools, based on MOM can handle scattering structures, which are very large in terms of wavelength. Predictions can be madearXiv:2111.05316v1 physics.space-ph 9 Nov 2021 Fig. 2. Antenna with plate near Moscow, radar target used in 6 with ERS SAR. Fig. 3. RCS data for antenna Fig. 2 6 . . using more detailed structural conﬁguration aspects especially in the focal region. Accordingly a revisit is made here with a secondary objective to complement 1 . A. RCS aspects RCS is commonly deﬁned as in Eq. 1. lim r!14 r2 Es( r) 2 Ei( r) 2(1) with position vector r, the scattered ﬁeld Es( r)and the incident ﬁeld Ei( r). A plane wave is assumed as the incoming ﬁeld from a SAR satellite, properly normalised. Eq. 1 presents a relation between incoming and outgoing power ﬂux densities without phase information. The scattered ﬁeld forms together with the incident ﬁeld a total ﬁeld Etot(Eq. 2). The total ﬁeld is complex and with its polarisation state and can be predicted in principle. Etot( r) Es( r) Ei( r) (2) The scattered ﬁeld results from a surface current distribution induced on the scatterer by the incident plane wave ﬁeld.The latter current distribution is determined by solving an electrical ﬁeld integral equation (EFIE) derived on the basis of a boundary condition for the electric ﬁeld. A solution is derived with the Method of Moments (MOM) and a scattered ﬁeld can be derived subsequently. A physically large antenna or radio telescope is considered as a large structure. Precise conﬁguration properties differ from antenna to antenna. Details need to be known, especially in the focal region. Accordingly one has to derive models for analysis of each antenna consid- ered and antenna conﬁgurations can be quite different. The complex scattered ﬁeld with its polarisation state is available. It
__label__energy	Dynamic locational marginal emissions via implicit di erentiation Lucas Fuentes Valenzuela1, Anthony Degleris 1, Abbas El Gamal1, Marco Pavone2, and Ram Rajagopal3 1Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University 2Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Stanford University 3Department of Civil Engineering, Stanford Engineering March 10, 2023 Abstract Locational marginal emissions rates (LMEs) estimate the rate of change in emissions due to a small change in demand in a transmission network, and are an important metric for assessing the impact of various energy policies or interventions. In this work, we develop a new method for computing the LMEs of an electricity system via implicit di erentiation. The method is model agnostic; it can compute LMEs for any convex optimization-based dispatch model, including some of the complex dispatch models employed by system operators in real electricity systems. In particular, this method lets us derive LMEs fordynamic dispatch models, i.e., models with temporal constraints such as ramping and storage. Using real data from the U.S. electricity system, we validate the proposed method against a state-of-the-art merit-order-based method and show that incorporating dynamic constraints improves model accuracy by 8.2 . Finally, we use simulations on a realistic 240-bus model of WECC to demonstrate the exibility of the tool and the importance of incorporating dynamic constraints. Namely, static LMEs and dynamic LMEs exhibit a normalized average RMS deviation of 28.40 , implying dynamic constraints are essential to accurately modeling emissions rates. 1 Introduction Policy-makers interested in decarbonizing the electricity grid require reliable emissions data in order to quan- tify the impact of a particular policy or intervention strategy. Similarly, grid operators conducting generation and transmission expansion studies 1 4 are increasingly looking to reduce emissions 5 9 and require de- tailed information on the relationship between demand and emissions. The need for this data will only grow as various systems, such as transportation and heating, begin to electrify and place additional strain on the grid. Unfortunately, electricity systems depend on complex, interconnected transmission network structures with numerous operational constraints, making it di cult to attribute emissions to energy consumption at a particular time and place 10 . Emissions rates are important metrics that quantify the amount of pollutant emissions, e.g., CO 2, SO 2, or NOx, attributable to the consumption of energy. Researchers and decision-makers often examine average emissions rates 11 15 which measure the average rate of emissions per MWh of energy consumed, and marginal emissions rates 16 20 (also known as marginal emission factors or marginal emission intensities), which measure the rate at which emissions increase or decrease given a marginal change in energy demand. While average emissions rates quantify emissions over long periods, marginal emissions rates better quantify the emissions impacts of small, local changes in demand, since only a few speci c generators are expected to change production in response. This response to marginal changes can be estimated both at the network level quantifying the aggregate sensitivity across many nodes in the network or at speci c locations. Indeed, these metrics vary on a node-by-node basis, as network constraints and the local energy mix dictate which generators are available to compensate for changes in demand. Hence, locational marginal emissions L. Fuentes Valenzuela and A. Degleris are co- rst authors. Corresponding author: A. Degleris. 1arXiv:2302.14282v3 eess.SY 8 Mar 2023 rates (LMEs) 21,22 quantify the emission sensitivity at the nodal level, revealing the spatial heterogeneity in marginal emissions rates that emerges from network constraints. LMEs are the emissions-equivalent of locational marginal prices, which have been studied extensively in the power systems community due to their importance to electricity markets 23 25 . LMEs have been used to quantify the impacts of various policies on carbon emissions, e.g., increasing electric vehicle penetration 26,27 and changing electric vehicle charging policies 28 , and are published live in the PJM Interconnection 29 , a major U.S. system operator. LMEs have also been used in transmission expansion studies 9,30,31 . In this application, the LMEs de ne the marginal emissions e ect of o setting demand at a particular node and can be viewed as the gradient of emissions with respect to net load in the planning optimization problem 9 . Empirical studies on marginal emissions rates in the U.S. and U.K. have used regression-based approaches to estimate emissions rates across large geographical regions 16, 21, 32, 33 . These works leverage publicly available data and t linear models to changes in emissions and net demand. The main bene t of these methods is that they do not require a model of the underlying electricity system. However, because of their inherent data requirements, these methods are di cult to extend to ner geographic resolutions and hypothetical electricity systems that lack preexisting data. In contrast, model-based approaches explicitly calculate LMEs using the underlying dispatch model. This calculation has been performed using marginal generator identi cation in merit-order models 34,35 , LMP- based approximations 36 38 , or, in simple cases, explicit formulae 22, 39, 40 . Model-based methods are promising because dispatch in real-world electricity systems often involves solving an optimization problem. However, the models used in real world systems are highly complex, limiting the applicability of speci c derivations in the aforementioned studies and highlighting the need for incorporating and feature speci c constraints, e.g., ramping limits or storage, that need to be taken into account when calculating LMEs 35,41 . For example, merit-order-based models usually neglect the impact of network constraints and only focus on generation cost to identify the marginal generator. LMP-based methods, which rely on matching LMPs with generation cost in order to identify the marginal generator, are not exact 37,38 , and the presence of complex coupling constraints would likely make identi cation even harder. On the other hand, analytical derivations, while exact, have so far only been conducted on dispatch models with a limited number of constraint types, e.g., transmission constraints. As far as we are aware of, no previous studies have exactly accounted for time dependencies such as energy storage when computing LMEs.
__label__energy	Integration of Renewable Generators in Synthetic Electric Grids for Dynamic Analysis Yijing Liu, Zeyu Mao, Hanyue Li, Komal S Shetye and Thomas J. Overbye Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Texas A M University, College Station, TX, USA 77843 Email: fyiji21, zeyumao2, hanyueli, shetye, overbye g tamu.edu Abstract This paper presents a method to better integrate dynamic models for renewable resources into synthetic electric grids. An automated dynamic models assignment process is proposed for wind and solar generators. A realistic composition ratio for different types of wind turbine generators (WTG) is assigned to each wind generator. Statistics summarized from real electric grid data form the bases in assigning proper models with reasonable parameters to each WTG. A similar process is used to assign appropriate models and parameters to each photovoltaic (PV) generator. Multiple control strategies of the renewable resources are considered and tested in case studies. Two large-scale synthetic network test cases are used as examples of modeling the dynamics of renewable generators. Several transient stability metrics are adopted to assess the stability level after being subject to N-1 contingency event. Representative contingency events are given to demonstrate the performance of the synthetic renewable generator models. Index Terms Power system transient stability, synthetic grids, renewable generation, model tuning, dynamic analysis I. I NTRODUCTION Appropriate power system dynamic models are crucial for system engineers to get more realistic and insightful transient stability analysis results, and can decrease the likelihood of maloperation 1 4 . Several IEEE test cases with dynamic models and parameters for sixth-order generator machines are deﬁned in 5, 6 . Work 7 utilizes the Dynamic Study Model approach to represent the global dynamics of the entire continental Europe power system, but the data is not openly available due to legitimate security concerns. Restricted public availability of actual large-scale power grid cases greatly impede the development of dynamic studies. References 8, 9 give one possible solution by developing ﬁctitious yet realistic large-scale synthetic power system models that are capable of simulating system transients. With the increasing penetration of renewable energy re- sources, the electrical power system is exposed to new bal- ancing and control challenges 10 14 . Among all renewable energy resources, wind and PV plants have the fastest increases of generation around 2020 15 . These changes and challenges raise awareness on the need for properly tuned large-scale power system cases which take into account the dynamic characteristics of the wind and PV plants. As such, this paper tackles the need to include dynamic models for the wind and PV generators in the large-scale synthetic power grids for transient stability studies.Researchers and industry have developed standard, ﬂexi- ble and publicly available models for wind and solar PV generation technologies in the past two decades 16 18 . The recent development of second-generation generic models for wind and PV plants allows a wider range of control strategies and equipment representation. Generic models also have the merits of public availability and documentation, good portability, validation and ﬂexibility. Moreover, these models are suitable for conducting futuristic researches since they have been functionally validated, so that the sensitivity of system response to diverse control strategies can be explored 19 . Utilizing these second-generation generic models, this paper focuses on integrating renewable generators in large- scale synthetic network dynamic case for dynamic studies. Previous work 9, 20 performed statistical analysis on var- ious machine exciter governor stabilizer models for multiple fuel types, excluding wind and solar generators. This paper aims to further extend the dynamic cases with wind and solar generation models. Statistical analysis on actual power system cases is conducted for wind and solar generators. The compo- sition ratio of different types of wind turbine models is identi- ﬁed and assigned to each bus that has a wind generation unit. Generic modules for generator excitation aerodynamics pitch controller torque controller plant controller are used for dif- ferent type wind plants if applicable 21 . Models of gener- ation excitation plant controller of central station solar plants are implemented as well 22 . Templates of parameters are extracted from actual cases based on various model type and different control strategies. One of multiple parameter templates for each module is assigned to a synthetic generator. In this work, the ACTIVSg2000 case (with 2000 buses) and the ACTIVSg10k case (with 10K buses) 23 are used as illustrations for integrating renewable generators. Simulations results are displayed to show the ability to provide real and reactive power support at the point of interconnection (POI). Several transient stability metrics are used to verify that the case has adequate performances after N-1 contingencies. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In sec- tion II, a procedure is developed to automatically identify and assign a model and a parameter template to each renewable generator. Simulation results using the 2000-bus case and the 10K-bus case integrated with renewable generators dynamic models are given in Section III successively. Last, Section IV offers conclusions of this paper and future work direction.arXiv:2101.02319v1 eess.SY 7 Jan 2021 II. E XTENSION OF SYNTHETIC NETWORK DYNAMIC MODELS WITH RENEWABLE GENERATORS A key aspect of dynamic simulations of power systems is to determine the proper models for different types of generators. An approach of assigning dynamic models and parameters to each renewable generator is developed in this section. In particular, the composition ratio of different types of WTGs is taken from the statistics of actual cases and then mapped to each WTG. Multiple parameter templates are extracted from actual cases. Then suitable models and associated parameter template are joined to obtain renewable generators diverse dynamic model proﬁles. This section starts with determining the composition ratio of WTGs. Newly installed wind power plants are essentially all of Type 3 or 4 due to the limitations of Type 1 2 WTGs 21 . Only the former types are considered in statistics analysis and then assigned to synthetic generators with the same probabili- ties as their relative proportion. For example, the composition ratio of Type 3 4 WTGs
__label__energy	Synergies in offshore energy: a roadmap for the Danish sector Feasibility study funded by the DHRTC February 2021 Matteo D Andrea1, Mario Garzón Gonzále z2, Russell McKenna1 1 School of Engineering, University of Aberdeen, UK 2 DTU Management, Technical University of Denmark Overview of Danish offshore region with developed energy system infrastructure to 2050 Synergies in offshore energy: a roadmap for the Danish sector 2 Executive Summary This study sets out to analyze future synergies between the O G and renewables sectors and explo re how exploiting these synergies could lead to economic and environmental benefits. By firstly reviewing and highlighting relevant technologies and related projects, this report synthesizes the state of the art in offshore energy system integration, by fo cusing on three key technologies in electrification floating wind, electrolysis hydrogen production and Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) . Both existing O G assets and these renewable technologies are techno -economically analysed with relevant technical and economic criteria. This results in an overview of the interconnected system of O G assets within the DUC along with operational data and retirement schedules, as well as techno -economic characteristics of floating offshore wind, electrolysis and CCS techn ologies. All of these preliminary results serve as input data for a holistic energy system analysis in the Balmorel modelling framework. With a timeframe out to 2050 and model scope including all North Sea neighbouring countries, this analysis explores a total of nine future scenarios for the North Sea energy system. The main results include an immediate electrification of all operational DUC platforms by linking them to the shore and or a planned Danish energy island. These measures r esult in cost and CO 2 emissions savings compared to a BAU scenario of 72 and 85 respectively. When these platforms cease production, this is followed by the repurposing of the platforms into hydrogen generators with up to 3.6 GW of electrolysers and the development of up to 5.8 GW of floating wind. The generated hydrogen is assumed to power the future transport sector, and is delivered to shore in existing and or new purpose -built pipelines. The contribution of the O G sector to this hydrogen production a mounts to around 19 TWh, which represents about 2 of total European hydrogen demand for transport in 2050. The levelized costs (LCOE) of producing this hydrogen in 2050 are around 4 2012 kg H 2, which is around twice those expected in similar studies. But this does not account for energy policies that may incentivize green hydrogen production in the future, which would serve to reduce this LCOE to a level that is more competitive with other sources. The very short timeframe and small project team mean tha t the analysis presented here is relatively high -level, requiring many simplifying assumptions and resulting in some important technical details being overlooked and left for future research. In particular there remain significant uncertainties relating to the technical feasibility and future economic developments of most of the technologies analysed. For this reason, this report should be understood as a starting point for further and more detailed analysis, rather than a definitive roadmap for the sector. Given the explorative nature of this research, recommendations mainly relate to areas where future work should focus: The business case for the results reported here should be analysed from the operator s perspective, in order to provide a clear indicatio n of possible value opportunities in repurposing existing assets. Collaborative research with offshore O G engineers should clarify the technical constraints on electrification and repurposing. A more holistic energy system analysis should be performed i n order to overcome some limitations in spatial resolution and technical approximations. A wider policy, regulation and market analysis needs to build on the above system analysis in order to assess the required framework conditions for a future integrated North Sea energy system. Synergies in offshore energy: a roadmap for the Danish sector 3 Table of Contents Executive Summary ................................ ................................ ................................ ........... 2 Table of Figures ................................ ................................ ................................ ................ 4 Table of Tables ................................ ................................ ................................ ................. 5 1. Introduction ................................ ................................ ................................ .................. 6 State of the art and related projects ................................ ................................ .............. 7 Denmark s oil gas history and future developments ................................ ........................ 7 Decommissioning regulations and methods ................................ ................................ ........ 8 Decommissioning in the North Sea ................................ ................................ ..................... 9 The UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 10 The Netherlands ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ 11 Energy system integration of O G and renewables ................................ .......................... 11 Platform electrification ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................... 12 Hydrogen production offshore ................................ ................................ ................................ .......... 13 Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) in depleted fields ................................ ................................ ....... 14 Techno -economic analysis ................................ ................................ ........................... 16 Oil and gas sector ................................ ................................ ................................ ............. 16 Description of O G platforms ................................ ................................ ................................ ........... 16 Overview of the Danish O G fields and infrastructure ................................ ................................ ..... 17 Platform clustering ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................ 19 Decommissioning process and timeline ................................ ................................ ............................ 20 Energy system and CO 2 emissions on the platforms ................................ ................................ ......... 20 Integration of renewable energy technologies on the platform ................................ ....................... 22 O G cost assumptions ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................... 22 Renewable technologies integrated with the O G sector ................................ ................. 23 Offshore wind energy status and p lans in Denmark ................................ ................................ ......... 23 Floating wind turbines: state of the art, costs and technology development ................................ ... 26 Hydrogen production with electrolysis ................................ ................................ ............................. 27 Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 31 Energy system modelling with Balmorel ................................ ................................ ...... 33 Introduction to the Balmorel model ................................ ................................ ................. 33 Scenario analysis ................................ ................................ ................................ ............. 35 Decommissioning (Business as Usual, BAU) ................................ ................................ ...................... 35 Electrification Repurposing (E R) Scenario ................................ ................................ ................... 36 Results analysis ................................ ................................ ................................ ................ 36 Decommissioning (BAU) ................................ ................................ ................................ .................... 36 Electrification Repurposing (E R) ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 37 Roadmap ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............ 39 Sensitivity analysis
__label__energy	Thermal Fracturing of Geothermal Wells and the E ects of Borehole Orientation Kjetil M. D. Halsa, Inga Berreb aChristian Michelsen Research, P .O. Box 6031, NO-5892 Bergen, Norway. bDepartment of Mathematics, University of Bergen, P .O. Box 7800, NO-5020 Bergen, Norway. Abstract An enhanced geothermal system (EGS) expands the potential of geothermal energy by enabling the exploita- tion of regions that lack conventional hydrothermal resources. The EGS subsurface system is created by engineering enhanced ﬂow paths between injection and production wells. Hydraulic stimulation of existing fracture networks has been successfully achieved for unconventional geothermal resources. More recently proposed concepts increase the use of drilled wellbores in hard rock to connect the injection and production wells. The present work investigates the long-term thermal e ects of deviated geothermal wellbores and stud- ies how the cooling of the borehole wall results in thermally induced tensile fractures. The results show that induced fractures are created by a combination of in situ and thermal stresses, and that the extent to which thermally induced tensile wall fractures are created largely depends on how the wellbores are oriented with respect to the pre-existing stresses of the reservoir. If the system is not optimized with respect to in situ stresses, the risk of wellbore instability becomes severe within less than a year of production. In contrast, if the orientation of the wellbores is optimized, thermally induced instabilities can be completely excluded as potential risks for the operational lifetime of the system. Furthermore, our results show that the thermal failure process strongly depends on the temperature of the injected water but is only weakly a ected by the injection rate. Keywords: Enhanced geothermal system, thermal fracturing, numerical modeling 1. Introduction Enhanced geothermal systems (EGSs) have emerged as a promising new type of geothermal power technology. An EGS uses hydraulic fracturing to create a fracture network in low-permeability rock layers to enhance the connectivity between typically deviated injection and production wells (Ab e et al., 1999). Still in the development stage, EGS technology has been criticized because of its po- tential to cause the initiation of larger seismic events (Majer et al., 2007). Recently, two alternative EGS concepts have been presented (Holmberg et al., 2012; Zhang et al., 2012) that increase the use Email addresses: kjetil.hals cmr.no (Kjetil M. D. Hals ), inga.berre math.uib.no (Inga Berre )of deviated wellbores to ensure connection between the production and injection wells (Fig. 1). One approach avoids the use of hydraulic stimulation, thereby reducing the risk of induced seismicity, by interconnecting the production and injection wells via drilled wellbores (Holmberg et al., 2012). The other approach uses drilled boreholes to improve the connection between the wellbores and the existing or stimulated fracture networks (Zhang et al., 2012). The present study refers to these new concepts as wellbore-based EGSs (WEGSs). The operational lifetimes of both EGSs and WEGSs largely depend on long-term e ects, such as mineral scaling, cor- rosion, and fracturing resulting from thermal stress, which could alter system permeability. The present article focuses on how long-term thermal e ects can Preprint submitted to Geothermics August 27, 2021 arXiv:1212.2763v1 physics.geo-ph 12 Dec 2012 result in borehole instabilities due to fracturing. 2000 m zθ 5000 m T 160 CT 4 C Tinj zbz 5000z 0 Figure 1: Illustration of a WEGS concept based on connected wellbores. The injection and production wells are intercon- nected by drilled wellbores (heat exchangers) that are tilted by an angle of with respect to the z axis. The length of each heat exchanger is 2000 m. zbrepresents the z-direction in the borehole coordinate system, while zis the vertical direction in the geographic coordinate system. The maximum depth of the wells is 5000 m below the surface. The temperature at 5000 m is assumed to be 160 C, while the water enters the heat ex- changers with a temperature of Tinj. Stress is induced in a reservoir that is exposed to compression or tension. The sources of inter- nal stress can be forces that are created due to a change of the reservoirs temperature or, in the case of a porous medium, a change in ﬂuid pressure. Large pre-existing (in situ) stresses are also typi- cally present in the reservoir due to tectonic forces and the overburden pressure (Zoback, 2007). Tensile or compressive rock failure is observed if the stress exceeds the rock strength (Zoback, 2007). Model- ing this fracturing is complicated, because the pro- cess depends on several coupled mechanisms that act on di erent length and time scales (Hansen, 2005; Hals and Berre, 2012). Fracturing has been stud- ied extensively over the last few decades with re- gard to the stabilities of deviated boreholes (Perkinsand Gonzalez, 1984; Pe ˇska and Zoback, 1995). In the petroleum industry, one of the major operational concerns related to drilled wellbores has been the prevention of borehole wall failure (Cooper, 1994). This type of failure is initiated by pressure and tem- perature gradients that are created around wellbores during drilling (Perkins and Gonzalez, 1984). Sev- eral previously published studies have investigated the stability of inclined boreholes. In particular, pressure-induced failures have been the focus of oil- well studies. In addition to numerical and experi- mental studies (Daneshy, 1973; Yew and Li, 1988; Baumg artner et al., 1989; Rawlings et al., 1993), the problem of borehole wall failure has been studied an- alytically via linear elastic models (Bradley, 1979; Aadnoy, 1987). Pe ˇska and Zoback (1995) presented a thorough investigation of borehole stabilities based on arbitrary borehole orientations in a wide variety of in situ stress states. They employed analytic expres- sions that describe the principal e ective stresses at the wellbore wall of a cylindrical well while consid- ering ﬂuid pressure variations (Hiramatsu and Oka, 1968; Fairhurst, 1968). Similar analytic expressions have been used in studies of thermally induced fail- ures (Myklestad, 1942; Perkins and Gonzalez, 1984; Zoback, 2007). The e ects of thermal fracturing have also been of concern in carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology. Recent studies have in- dicated that
__label__energy	Optimization-Based Resiliency Veriﬁcation in Microgrids via Maximal Adversarial Set Characterization Nawaf Nazir , Thiagarajan Ramachandran, Saptarshi Bhattacharya, Ankit Singhal, Soumya Kundu, and Veronica Adetola Abstract Critical energy infrastructures are increasingly relying on advanced sensing and control technologies for efﬁcient and optimal utilization of ﬂexible energy resources. Algorithmic procedures are needed to ensure that such systems are designed to be resilient to a wide range of cyber-physical adversarial events. This paper provides a robust optimization framework to quantify the range of adversarial perturba- tions that a system can accommodate without violating pre- speciﬁed resiliency metrics. An inner-approximation of the set of adversarial events which can be mitigated by the availabe ﬂexibility is constructed using an optimization based approach. The proposed algorithm is illustrated on an islanded microgrid example: a modiﬁed IEEE 123-node feeder with distributed energy resources. Simulations are carried out to validate that the resiliency metrics are met for any event sampled from the constructed adversarial set for varying levels of available ﬂexibility (energy reserves). I. INTRODUCTION Decarbonization ,digitalization , and decentralization are driving the evolution of the energy infrastructures worldwide in the 21st century 1 . There are incentives towards low carbon solutions (including, but not limited to, renewable energy resources), most of which are located at the customer sites (e.g., rooftop solar panels). On the other hand, advanced sensing and control technologies, coupled with ubiquitous communication infrastructure, are creating a digital platform for efﬁcient and optimal utilization of distributed energy re- sources. Fueled by these and other drivers, microgrids are fast emerging as viable energy infrastructure. Microgrids are a group of ﬂexible energy resources operating together locally as a single controllable entity, satisfying certain reliability, power quality, and adequacy standards 2 . Safe and reliable operation of microgrids via optimal coordination of the ﬂexible energy resources has drawn much attention in recent works 3 . Several works, including 4 , have shown how microgrids with multiple energy sources can minimize the cost of energy and increase the resilience of energy supply to critical loads. In 5 , data-driven methods have been used to study the impact of uncertainties in the renewable generation on microgrid resiliency, whereas in 6 , resiliency metrics are incorporated into the microgrid planning problem. A robust optimization framework for microgrid operation is The authors are with the Electricity Infrastructure and Buildings Division at the Paciﬁc Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354, USA. S. Kundu holds a joint appointment as an Adjunct Faculty within the Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering at the University of Vermont, Burlington, VT 05405, USA. Corresponding Author. Email: nawaf.nazir pnnl.gov .presented in 7 , which calculates the reserves required to ensure robustness under modeled uncertainties. The resiliency of energy systems, e.g., microgrids, against various cyber and physical adversarial events, including malicious attacks, have been studied in the literature 8 11 . One type of such attacks includes injecting measure- ment errors to renewable generation output. Such errors can be constant offsets or potentially time-varying, and left untreated, may eventually lead to ramp-induced attacks 12 . Another class of attacks include replay attacks 13 , whereby the measured renewable generation output is maliciously changed to reﬂect the true generation at a previous time stamp, thus impacting dispatch decisions. A third class of attacks entails corruption of state estimation, whereby the estimated physical quantities required for dispatch decisions (such as load setpoints) are maliciously changed 14 , 15 . Speciﬁcally, load-setpoint change attacks often cause maxi- mal impact when affected during speciﬁc hours of the day (for example, during 12 - 7 PM, when the load typically rises to hit an evening peak). A ﬁnal class of attacks is coordinated attacks, whereby an attacker often has access to multiple critical information of the system, and can maliciously pose threats in a coordinated manner, from multiple sources (such as malicious under-estimation of load coupled with over- estimation of renewable capacity). Examples of such cyber- physical attacks can be found in 12 , 16 , 17 . In addition to attacks, other physical events such as generator outage, loss of solar generation due to cloud coverage, etc., could also lead to violations of critical operational constraints (such as serviceability of critical loads), as considered in this work. The main contribution of the paper is to identify the set of cyber-physical adversarial events that the microgrid is guaranteed to be resilient against, via optimal use of available ﬂexible energy resources. An optimization problem is set up to construct an inner approximation of the tolerable adversarial set. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Sec. II presents the microgrid model that will be used in this paper and presents baseline optimization results without considering the uncertainty due to adversarial events. Sec. III provides the robust version of the microgrid optimization problem that calculates optimal reserves required to manage the adversarial events. Sec. IV provides the adversarial set characterization technique that is used to determine an inner approximation of the set of adversarial events that the mi- crogrid can handle. Simulation results showing various case studies on the baseline model, robust model and adversarial set characterization are shown in Sec. V. Finally, Sec. VIarXiv:2203.14918v1 eess.SY 28 Mar 2022 provides the conclusions and the scope for future work. II. BASELINE OPTIMIZATION Let us begin by presenting a formulation of the optimal dispatch problem in a microgrid with various distributed energy resources, including solar photovoltaics (PVs), diesel generators (DGs), and energy storage (ES) units. We intro- duce a few notations for the following mathematical descrip- tion. LetNdenote the set of all bus indices, and L N N denote the set of all branches. We use Vn;kto denote the multi-phase voltage vector at bus n2N , at timek. The net apparent power injection at bus n, at timek, is denoted by Snet n;k Pnet n;k jQnet n;k, wherePnet n;kandQnet n;kare the respective active and reactive power components. Likewise, the Table I lists the symbols denoting the apparent, active, and reactive power associated with each of the energy resources
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Dynamic Linepack Depletion Models for Natural Gas Pipeline Networks Samuel Chevalier1, Dan Wu2, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139 Abstract Given the critical role played by natural gas in providing electricity, heat, and other essential services, better models are needed to understand the dynamics of natural gas networks during extreme events. This paper aims at establishing appropriate and fast simulation models to capture the slow dynamics of linepack depletion for ideal isothermal natural gas pipeline networks. Instead of solving partial di erential equations (PDE) on a large scale, three alternative implicit ordinary di erential equation (ODE) simulation techniques are derived and dis- cussed. The rst one is commonly used in the literature with a slack node assumption. We show that the system of equations associated with this model is degenerate when ux injections are controlled (i.e. speci ed) at all nodes. To recover regularity under such a condition, two novel implicit ODE models are proposed, both with di erent techniques for specifying boundary conditions. They are easy to derive and e cient to simulate with standard ODE solvers. More importantly, they present useful frameworks for analyzing how networks respond to system-wide mass ux imbalances. These techniques o er di erent alternatives for simulating system dynamics based on how sources and loads are chosen to be modeled, and they are all proven to be regular (non-degenerate) in tree-structured networks. These proposed techniques are all tested on the Corresponding author Email addresses: schev mit.edu (Samuel Chevalier), danwumit mit.edu (Dan Wu) 1Samuel Chevalier is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts In- stitute of Technology. 2Dan Wu is with the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Preprint submitted to Applied Mathematical Modeling January 1, 2021arXiv:2001.11496v2 eess.SY 30 Dec 2020 20-node Belgium network. The simulation results show that the conventional model with the slack node assumption cannot e ectively capture linepack de- pletion under long term system-wide mass ux imbalance, while the proposed models can characterize the network behavior until the linepack is completely depleted. Keywords: Dynamic simulation, linepack depletion, natural gas network, implicit regular ODE, survival time 1. Introduction Natural gas continuous to be a growing fuel source among many energy consumption sectors, especially the power generation sector of the electrical grid. In 2018, natural gas (NG) red power plants produced 35.5 of the total electricity in the United States 1 , up from 13 in 2000 2 . Since onsite storage of NG fuel is nonexistent for many of these generators 3 , the NG pipeline network (NGPN) serves as a critical transportation and storage infrastructure system in the American energy supply chain. Thus, the economic and reliable operation of NGPNs plays a critical role in the secure and e cient supply of energy to the whole of society. It is increasingly evident that the degree of coupling between the electrical power grid and NGPNs is largely increasing 4, 1 . This strong coupling raises a new challenge for analyzing the propagation of certain types of failures in these systems 5 . Accordingly, much work has been done in discussing design procedures for NGPNs 6 , co-planning NGPNs and power grids 7, 8 , optimal operation of NGPNs 9, 10 , impacts of failures and congestion on NGPNs 11, 12 , and the interdependency of NGPNs and power grids 13, 14 . To better understand and mitigate failure cascades between NGPNs and the power grid, dynamic and steady state models utilizing di erent assumptions and time scales are required. A vast literature exists on the modeling of electrical power systems and their various dynamical components 15, 16, 17 . When considering long term phenomena, the fast electromagnetic wave transients in power grids can 2 be simpli ed to algebraic constraints, but the dynamics of NG propagation are inherently slow (10 m s is a characteristic gas ow speed in the pipeline, usually below 20 m s) and thus cannot be ignored. A variety of platforms have been developed for the purpose of simulating NGPN dynamics. Early attempts and reviews of the relevant NGPN dynamics, modeling strategies, and numerical solution techniques can be found in 18, 19, 20, 21 . Recent works have focused on either deriving more accurate simula- tion models with non-isothermal gas assumption 22, 23, 24 or approximating network dynamics through discretization in time and space 25, 26, 27, 28 , so that state space control and optimization techniques can be leveraged for various objectives. For high delity results, authors in 29 employ a second order staggered nite di erence discretization method. The approach is compu- tationally e cient, unconditionally stable, and proven to exactly satisfy mass conservation. Despite the potential high delity of these results, simulating the nonlinear partial di erential equations (PDEs) which model these uid dynam- ics can be intractably slow for large NGPNs whose dynamics unfold over the course of many hours. It is therefore necessary to have fast and relatively ac- curate tools for evaluating the dynamic behaviour of NGPNs under extreme situations, such as severe contingencies. Simulation speed has been the primary focus of other researchers. By lin- earizing about an operating point, 30 employs transfer function matrices to describe the dynamics associated with pipelines in a network. For further sim- pli cation, 31 identi es the dominant eigenmodes of the linearized NGPN and uses them to build a reduced order model of the system for simpli ed analy- sis. In order to simplify the particular gas wave e ects while still preserving nonlinearities, 32 analytically integrates across segments of the pipelines in or- der to build an ODE model. Via adaptive time-stepping, simulation results of the reduced model are compared with those from a full order PDE model and are shown to be comparable in accuracy. For increasing the speed of simula- tion, 33 models a NGPN with a set of DAEs, and then model order reduction, via proper orthogonal decomposition, is proposed for fast evaluations. By ap- 3 plying the projector based analysis of linear DAEs 34
__label__energy	Impact of Aviation Electri cation on Airports: Flight Scheduling and Charging Boya Hou1, , Subhonmesh Bose1, Lavanya Marla2, Kiruba Haran1 Abstract Electri cation can help to reduce the carbon footprint of aviation. The transition away from the jet fuel-powered conventional airplane towards battery-powered electri ed aircraft will impose extra charging requirements on airports. In this paper, we rst quantify the increase in energy demands at several airports across the United States (US), when com- mercial airline carriers partially deploy hybrid electric aircraft (HEA). We then illustrate that smart charging and minor modi cations to ight schedules can substantially reduce peak power demands, and in turn the needs for grid infrastructure upgrade. Motivated by our data analysis, we then formulate an optimization problem for ight rescheduling that incorporates HEA charging considerations. This problem jointly decides ight schedules and charging pro les to manage airport congestion and peak power demands. We further con- sider mechanisms via which airlines and airports can negotiate HEA assignments using said optimization problem. Finally, we illustrate the e cacy of our formulation through a case study on the John F. Kennedy International Airport. Keywords: Electri ed aircraft, Airport congestion management, Smart charging 1. Introduction Commercial aviation produced 915 million tonnes of CO 2worldwide in 2019, responsi- ble for 2 of all human-induced CO 2emissions from energy consumption, as per the Air Transport Action Group 1 . The carbon footprint of aviation is projected to increase with predicted annual growth of 4.2 in demand for air travel over 2018-2038, according to the International Civil Aviation Organization 2 , with temporary reductions due to COVID-19 (see Grewe et al. 3 ). The corresponding increase in greenhouse gas emissions will pose a serious threat to the vision of a carbon-neutral future. Electri cation has been identi ed Corresponding author Email address: boyahou2 illinois.edu (Boya Hou) 1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign,Urbana, IL, 61801, USA 2Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign, Urbana, IL, 61801, USA Preprint submitted to a journal June 2, 2022arXiv:2108.08963v2 eess.SY 31 May 2022 as a potential path to reduce said emissions, e.g., by the National Academies of Sciences Engineering and Medicine 4 . Electri ed aircraft are an emergent technology, largely enabled by the development e orts supported by NASA s Advanced Air Transport Technologies program in the United States and similar programs by the respective agencies in the European Union and Asia. Vari- ous aircraft con gurations such as turbo-electric, hybrid-electric and all-electric have been proposed and analyzed. By hybrid electric con guration, we mean those airplanes which are propelled partly by electric motor through a battery system and partly by gas turbines through jet fuel. For example, ight performance of parallel turbofan systems has been an- alyzed in Gladin et al. 5 . The bene ts of a parallel hybrid propulsion system for boosting power during takeo and climb has been demonstrated in Lents et al. 6 and Bertrand et al. 7 . Small electric airplanes for general aviation are already available. Flight demonstrations are underway for the commuter class with planes carrying 20 passengers. The next step is to electrify regional airplanes that accommodate 30 - 100 passengers. Various studies such as those in Sch afer et al. 8 , Wroblewski and Ansell 9 predict that commercial aviation will adopt electric aircraft over the next few decades (in the 2030-2050 time-frame). To handle the impending electri cation of commercial aviation, airports must invest in appropriate charging infrastructure. Investment into building such infrastructure must be forward-looking and account for plausible growth trajectories of electri cation technology. The rst aim of this paper is to provide a framework to gauge the energy and power needs of hybrid electric aircraft (HEA) at major airports across the United States (US), accounting for the schedules of various airlines at the airport. As will become clear, we only consider those HEA con gurations that are deemed to become viable over the 2030-2050 time frame, according to academic and industrial research. Scheduling of ights at an airport is intimately related to when and how much the electri ed aircraft operating these ights can be charged. As we demonstrate, one substantially impacts the other. The second and nal aim of this paper is the formulation and analysis of ight rescheduling protocols at airports that takes charging considerations of HEA into account. That is, we jointly aim to optimize ight arrivals departures and decide the charging pro les of HEA, aiming to minimize airport congestion and peak electric power demands from HEA. To do so, we tally the pros and cons of two possible mechanisms for congestion management. The rst mechanism allows a central authority such as the airport to centrally solve the rescheduling problem. The second one designs a negotiation strategy, where airlines propose schedules and the airport runs the rescheduling problem as a feasibility check, and the cycle continues till all parties agree. In this paper, we restrict our congestion management interventions to rescheduling protocols at airports at the strategic or planning phase, which account for airport-wide constraints on movements and charging. Similar questions can be studied for tactical or real-time operations; such investigations are relegated to future work. Not all ights can be operated using HEA. Energy densities of today s batteries are in the 200-250 Wh kg range. They are substantially smaller than that of jet fuel with densities of 13,000 Wh kg. As a result, the size and the weight of a battery required on board limits the range of an HEA. The battery size also depends on the extent the aircraft relies on electric 2 propulsion as opposed to jet fuel. With plausible con gurations of battery energy densities and degree of hybridization, we compute the energy needs for operating HEA on domestic ight paths within continental US in Section 2. By switching ights from current schedules that can be operated by HEA, we estimate the increase in annual energy needs at various US
__label__energy	A reaction network approach to modeling carbon dioxide removal systems Noel Fortun1,Piolo Gaspar2,Editha Jose2, ,Angelyn Lao1, Eduardo Mendoza1,4,5,Luis Razon3 1Department of Mathematics and Statistics, De La Salle University, Manila, 0922, Philippines 2Institute of Mathematical Sciences, University of the Philippines Los Ba nos, Los Ba nos, 4031, Laguna, Philippines 3Department of Chemical Engineering, De La Salle University, Manila, 0922, Philippines 4Center for Natural Sciences and Environmental Research, De La Salle University, Manila, 0922, Philippines 5Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Martinsried near Munich, Germany Corresponding author: ecjose1 up.edu.ph Abstract This paper focuses on what we call Reaction Network Cardon Dioxide Removal (RNDCR) framework to analyze several proposed negative emissions technologies (NETs) so as to determine when present-day Earth carbon cycle system would exhibit multistationarity (steady-state multiplicity) or possibly monostationarity, that will in effect lower the rising earth temperature. Using mathematical modeling based on the techniques of chemical reaction network theory (CRNT), we propose an RNDCR system consisting of the Anderies subnetwork, fossil fuel emission reaction, the carbon capture subnetwork and the carbon storage subnetwork. The RNCDR framework analysis was done in the cases of two NETs: Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage and Afforestation Reforestation. It was found out that these two methods of carbon dioxide removal are almost similar with respect to their network properties and their capacities to exhibit multistationarity and absolute concentration robustness in certain species. 1 Introduction The rapidly increasing concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere and its dire conse- quences are one of the major pressing concerns worldwide at present. The Inter- governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has stated that more direct inter- ventions like carbon dioxide removal (CDR) are now necessary to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions ( 29 ). Predicting the impact of human interventions on the Earth system using mathematical models is thus a key task that would allow the selection and optimization of these activities prior to actual implementation ( 33 ). The primary approach in Earth system modeling is to subdivide the entire Earth surface into three-dimensional, model the processes in each cell, and then subse- quently model the inter-cell interactions. Ultimately, this may be the most accurate and reliable approach, but it requires large amounts of computing time even on the most powerful computers in the world ( 21 ).arXiv:2412.17568v1 eess.SY 23 Dec 2024 Another approach is to model each major part of the Earth into separate com- partments such as the atmosphere, ocean, and land without any spatial resolution and model them as interacting perfectly mixed chemical reactors. Such an approach has been taken in the following papers: 19 , 26 , 1 , and 16 . This approach has been further extended to include even economic systems ( 2 , 24 ). The computa- tions involved are simpler and may provide useful insights that may be difficult to discern in more complex models. Numerical analysis of such systems has shown that the Earth System may ex- hibit so-called tipping points . The term tipping point captures the thought that . . . at a particular moment in time, a small change can have large, long-term con- sequences for a system ( 20 ). Exceeding a critical threshold in a key parameter may cause a rapid transition to another (perhaps undesirable) from which recovery may be difficult if not impossible. Tipping points would be commonly associated with systems that exhibit steady-state multiplicity (often called, interchangeably, multistationarity or multiple stationary states.) In the analysis of chemically react- ing systems, these are more often called bifurcation points ( 25 ). The numerical analysis performed in 1 demonstrated that pre-industrial Earth may be expected to exhibit only unique stable steady states. However, their analysis of industrial Earth showed that there may be regions in the parameter space where steady-state multiplicity may exist and that it is possible that a tipping point may be reached in the future. Is it possible then that there may be human interventions that could restore the pre-industrial Earth with unique stable steady states? The question could be also put this way: Under what conditions would a human intervention on Earth result in a system with unique steady states under all parameter combinations? Is there a way we can quickly screen possible interventions to find out? The set of techniques called Chemical Reaction Network Theory (CRNT) is a method by which observations on the network properties of lumped chemically reacting systems can determine whether the given system can admit the possible existence (or absence) of steady-state multiplicity ( 8 ). Our previous studies ( 10, 12,14 ) that apply CRNT have shown that the pre-industrial Earth model proposed in 26 has a unique steady state, while the capacity for steady-state multiplicity of the model in 1 depends on some parameters. In a subsequent study, we determined necessary conditions for the existence and uniqueness of steady states in a model of an industrial Earth system wherein Direct Air Capture is implemented ( 15 ). In this paper, we demonstrate a framework for analyzing proposed negative emissions technologies (NET) and determining the conditions as to when present- day Earth can would still be exhibiting steady-state multiplicity. Consequently, this analysis would also show when present-day Earth would have unique steady states, making recovery from a high-temperature state more likely to succeed. 2 Power-law kinetic representation of an Earth system model The framework for analysis of the global carbon cycle models described in Section 3 requires constructing a power-law kinetic representation . A power-law kinetic representation of a given dynamical system refers to a chemical reaction network (CRN) with power-law kinetics that is dynamically equivalent to the given system; i.e., they have identical ODEs. The aim is to understand the dynamics of the power- law system by examining its power-law kinetic representation in a way that bypasses 2 Figure 1. The pre-industrial carbon cycle model based from Anderies et al. 1 . In the box model, the boxes represent the different pools, solid arrows indicate the transfer of carbon from one pool
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	Reinforcement Learning for Sustainable Energy: A Survey Koen Ponse , Felix Kleuker , M arton Fej er , Alvaro Serra-G omez, Aske Plaat, Thomas Moerland Leiden University Equal contribution Abstract The transition to sustainable energy is a key challenge of our time, requiring modifications in the entire pipeline of energy production, storage, transmission, and consumption. At every stage, new sequential decision-making challenges emerge, ranging from the operation of wind farms to the management of electrical grids or the scheduling of electric vehicle charging stations. All such problems are well suited forreinforcement learning , the branch of machine learning that learns behavior from data. Therefore, numerous stud- ies have explored the use of reinforcement learning for sus- tainable energy. This paper surveys this literature with the intention of bridging both the underlying research communi- ties: energy and machine learning. After a brief introduction of both fields, we systematically list relevant sustainabil- ity challenges, how they can be modeled as a reinforcement learning problem, and what solution approaches currently exist in the literature. Afterwards, we zoom out and iden- tify overarching reinforcement learning themes that appear throughout sustainability, such as multi-agent, offline, and safe reinforcement learning. Lastly, we also cover standard- ization of environments, which will be crucial for connecting both research fields, and highlight potential directions for future work. In summary, this survey provides an extensive overview of reinforcement learning methods for sustainable energy, which may play a vital role in the energy transition. 1 Introduction Driven by population growth and higher per capita power use, an already rising global power demand is expected to in- crease further in the coming years. According to the Statis- tical Review of World Energy 2023 1 , currently more than Figure 1: Potential development of the energy mix from today towards full sustainability (trajectories are not fully based on real projective data and are just for illustrative purposes) 70 of primary energy1is derived from fossil fuels. The current share of fossil fuels in the existing energy landscape needs to be replaced by sustainable counterparts to mitigate environmental effects, such as global warming 2 , and to be less dependent on finite world resources. More generally, we need to meet the (energy) needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs 3 a common way to define sustainable en- ergy. In other words, we must replace non-sustainable pri- mary energy sources with suitable sustainable counterparts, as depicted in Figure 1. 1Primary energy is a measure of the energy we use, categorized under its original form found in nature. 1arXiv:2407.18597v1 cs.LG 26 Jul 2024 The backbone of scaling up the total energy supply in a sustainable landscape are renewable energy sources, such as wind or solar. However, in contrast to fossil power plants, these sources do not provide the energy on demand, which poses a variety of optimization challenges. While tradition- ally we were to fit the supply according to demand, with renewable energy sources, the supply needs to be allocated in an optimal way to guarantee the best usage and stability of electrical grids. Components within a grid are faced with new optimization challenges as well. For example, storage systems such as batteries could help balance the load on the grid. Another big avenue is the electrification of the transport sector, further intensifying the challenge of opti- mal energy distribution, e.g. in the form of EV Charging. The shift away from fossil fuels also requires a tremendous scale-up of installed capacity of renewable energy sources, rendering optimal installation and operation of these even more important. Reinforcement learning, a major branch of Machine Learning, aims to solve sequential decision tasks and is well suited to address many of the optimization and control chal- lenges in the field of sustainable energy. Machine learning in general would help in many regards in mitigating test time costs and recognizing patterns in large amounts of data. Re- inforcement learning in particular can aid in finding optimal strategies, usually called policies, just by interacting with an environment and receiving partial feedback. In contrast to supervised learning, reinforcement learning does not re- quire control actions to be individually labeled, but instead learns from the outcomes of its actions through trail-and- error. This in turn allows it to potentially outperform hu- man solutions. As such, reinforcement learning is used in the field of sustainable energy with the hope of significantly enhancing the efficiency and reliability of these systems 4 . This survey aims to connect the machine learning (rein- forcement learning) community with the sustainable energy community. As such, we will be approaching the field from both angles in different sections. For researchers coming from the machine learning domain, we group challenges in the sustainable energy field in an easy-to-understand tax- onomy and point to research that has been undertaken to address these challenges. Researchers from the energy do- main are presented with a general introduction into rein- forcement learning, pointing to possibly relevant literature. Additionally, we group the currently existing literature in reinforcement learning challenges that need to be addressed in the various energy problems. We find that the field is still relatively young, and major reinforcement learning literature has largely not yet foundits way into applied research. Notable topics that would require more work, in order to get to real-world deploy- ment, are safe reinforcement learning and offline reinforce- ment learning. Furthermore, we observe a very wide and di- verse number of benchmarks (environments) in the research field, while we should strive to more standardization. This standardization may prove to be the most important bridge for the two research fields to come together. When this hap- pens, we see a lot of potential for reinforcement learning in the energy field. Note that the transition to sustainable energy involves both technical and economic challenges. For this survey, we focus on the former, discussing the technical aspects of gen- eration, storage, transport, and consumption of sustainable energy. Of course, practical deployment will also require economic tools,
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	13. Internationale Energiewirtschaftstagung an der TU Wien IEWT 2023 Page 1 von 15 On the impact of smartification strategies for the state estimation of low voltage grids Armin FATEMI1, Franziska TISCHBEIN1, Dr.-Ing. Frank WIRTZ2, Dr.-Ing. Christin SCHMOGER3, Stefan DORENDORF3, Dr.-Ing. Annika SCHURTZ4, Prof. Dr. -Ing. David ECHTERNACHT4,5, Univ. Prof. Dr. sc. Andreas ULBIG1 1IAEW RWTH Aachen, Schinkelstraße 6, 52062 Aachen, a.fatemi iaew.rwth -aachen.de , f.tischbein iaew.rwth -aachen.de , a.ulbig iaew.rwth -aachen.de , www.iaew.rwth -aachen.de 2Bayernwerk Netz GmbH, Lilienthalstraße 7, 93049 Regensburg, frank.wirtz bayernwerk.de , www.bayernwerk -netz.de 3E.DIS AG, Langewahler Straße 60, 15517 Fürstenwalde Spree, christin.schmoger e -dis.de, stefan.dorendorf e -dis.de, www.e -dis.de 4E-Bridge Consulting GmbH, Baumschulallee 15, 53115 Bonn, aschurtz e -bridge.de , dechternacht e -bridge.de , www.e -bridge.de 5Hochschule Düsseldorf, Münsterstraße 156, 40476 Düsseldorf, david.echternacht hs -duesseldorf.de , hs-duesseldorf.de Abstract : The decarbonization of for example the energy or heat sector le ads to the transformation of distribution grids. The expansion of decentralized energy resources and the integration of new consumers due to sector coupling (e.g. heat pumps or electric vehicles) into low voltage grids increases the need for grid expansion and usage of flexibilities in the grid. A high observability of the current grid status is needed to perform these tasks efficiently and effectively. Therefore, there is a need to increase the observability of low voltage grids by installing measurement technologies (e.g. smart meters). Multiple different measurement technologies are available for low voltage grids which can vary in the ir benefit to observation quality and their installation costs. Therefore, Bayernwerk Netz GmbH and E.DIS AG in cooperation with E -Bridge Consulting GmbH and the Institute for High Voltage Equipment and Grids, Digitalization and Energy Economics (IAEW) investigated the effectiveness of different strategies for the smartification of low voltage grids . This paper presents the methodology used for the investigation and exemplary results focusing on the impact of intelligent cable distribution cabinets and smart meters on the quality of the state estimation. Keywords: State Estimation , Grid Observability, Measuremen t Technologies , Smart Meter 13. Internationale Energiewirtschaftstagung an der TU Wien IEWT 2023 Page 2 von 15 1 Introduction The decarbonization of for example the energy or heat sector leads to new challenges for distribution grids and their operators. The increasing amount of decentralized energy resources and the integration of ne w consumers due to competitiveness of electric vehicles and the transformation of the heat sector has the capability to bring the current distribution grids to their limits 1 . Many of these new units will be located in the low voltage (LV) level. To be a ble to tackle these challenges grid operators have to extend their grid effectively and efficiently. A possibility to reduce or shift the amount of future grid expansion needs can be active grid operation e.g. by means of controllable flexibilities . Both e ffective and efficient grid planning and active grid operation require observability of the current grid status. Many stakeholders in the energy sector have recognized this need for digitalization and smartification of the current systems 2 . For an accur ate observability a reliable state estimation has to be executed which needs real measured values 3 . There are multiple technologies available f or measurement s in low voltage grids ranging from central measurements at the transformer substation to local measurements at the consumers utilizing smart meters. Therefore, there is the need to investigate which impact different equipment variants , using combinations of these technologies, can have on the state estimation in low voltage grids. This enables the grid operator to choose the most effective and cost -efficient strategy. This paper presents a study which investigates the estimation quality of different equipment variants and relates them to the requirements of real -world use -cases like grid planning o r active grid management. Therefore, we implement a method to calculate the state estimation quality for a given grid topology and equipment variant . The focus of this paper lies on the investigation of strategies based on intelligent cable distribution ca binets and smart meters. 2 Theoretical Background This chapter explains the theoretical background used for the methodology and study we present. In a f irst subchapter , we introduce the mathematical background for state estimation and afterwards give an ove rview of the measurement technologies used in this study. 2.1 Mathematical Background In grid operation most of the time not all information about the current grid status is available . Therefore, grid operators use a state estimation to calculate the missing v alues and the current grid status (e.g. voltage magnitudes and angles, power withdrawals and feed -ins). Thereby, the state estimation uses the current grid topology and available measurements. Using this information, the state estimation searches for a gri d status which fits the given measurements the best minimizing the error squares. For our study we assume perfect knowledge about our current grid topology and only vary the given measurement locations (e.g. bus -voltage, power feed-in or current over a lin e) with the chosen equipment variant. The state estimation algorithm builds a mathematical problem using the grid topolog y and the measurement values with their corresponding standard deviation 𝜈. The standard deviation describes the accuracy of the meas urements which helps the algorithm to weight them amongst each other. The relationship of the state vector 𝑥 , representing the solution of the state estimation, and the measured values 𝑧𝑚 is given by 13. Internationale Energiewirtschaftstagung an der TU Wien IEWT 2023 Page 3 von 15 𝑧𝑚 𝑓(𝑥 ). (1) Because the measured values are fraught with uncertain ty, the standard deviation 𝜈 is added in the mathematical model by 𝑧𝑚 𝑧 𝜈. (2) Therefore, the relationship described by (1) is replaced by 𝑧𝑚 𝑓(𝑥 ) 𝜈 . (3) Formula (3) has no analytical solution because the deviation vecto r 𝜈 is unknown. It is possible to determine an estimated vector 𝑥 where the real measured values 𝑧 deviate as little as possible from the given measured values 𝑧𝑚 with the
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	Highlights Physics-Informed Recurrent Network for Gas Pipeline Network Parameters Identification Siyuan Wang, Wenchuan Wu, Chenhui Lin, Qi Wang, Shuwei Xu, Binbin Chen A physics-informed recurrent network (PIRN) is pro- posed, integrating fluid dynamics with data-driven learn- ing. The PIRN model requires only sparse terminal node mea- surements to identify the state-space parameters of gas pipelines. The PIRN model demonstrates superior parameter e ffi- ciency and can be seamlessly integrated into optimization frameworks.arXiv:2502.07230v1 eess.SY 11 Feb 2025 Physics-Informed Recurrent Network for Gas Pipeline Network Parameters Identification Siyuan Wanga, Wenchuan Wua, Chenhui Lina, Qi Wanga,b, Shuwei Xua, Binbin Chenc aState Key Laboratory of Power Systems, Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, 100084, Beijing, China bHong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China cByteDance Ltd., 100083, Beijing, China Abstract As a part of the integrated energy system (IES), gas pipeline networks can provide additional flexibility to power systems through coordinated optimal dispatch. An accurate pipeline network model is critical for the optimal operation and control of IESs. However, inaccuracies or unavailability of accurate pipeline parameters often introduce errors in the mathematical models of such networks. This paper proposes a physics-informed recurrent network (PIRN) model to identify the state-space model of gas pipelines. The approach combines data-driven learning from measurement data with the fluid dynamics described by partial differential equations. By embedding the physical state-space model within the recurrent network, parameter identification is transformed into a training process for a PIRN. Similar to standard recurrent neural networks, this model can be implemented using the PyTorch framework and trained via backpropagation. Case studies demonstrate that our method accurately estimates gas pipeline models from sparse terminal node measurements, providing robust performance and significantly higher parameter efficiency. Furthermore, the identified models can be seamlessly integrated into optimization frameworks. Keywords: Integrated energy system, Physics-informed, Recurrent network, Gas pipeline network, Parameter identification 1. Introduction 1.1. Background and Motivation In recent years, significant e fforts have been directed toward advancing energy conversion technologies within integrated en- ergy systems 1 , with the dual goals of improving energy ef- ficiency and reducing overall carbon emissions 2 . Gas-fired units and power-to-gas devices are key examples of these tech- nologies and have seen widespread deployment 3 . To en- sure economically optimal operation, the coordinated dispatch of gas and power systems is essential 4 . However, inaccura- cies in the mathematical modeling of gas pipeline networks can render the results of gas system optimal dispatch calculations infeasible. In the context of optimal dispatch, it is critical to account for the dynamic behavior of gas flow 5 , which is governed by the partial di fferential equations (PDEs) of fluid dynamics 6 . The parameters that define this dynamic process are directly influ- enced by the gas pipeline network s characteristics. A promis- ing alternative to deriving these parameters analytically is the use of data-driven approaches 7 . Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) are a commonly used type of artificial neural network, particularly well-suited for processing sequential and time-dependent data 8 . Their ar- chitecture includes directed cycles, which enable RNNs to maintain a hidden state, e ffectively capturing and retaining information from previous inputs. This memory capability makes RNNs highly appropriate for simulating dynamic, state- dependent systems, such as gas pipeline networks. However, the inherent black box nature of traditional neural networkspresents challenges in terms of interpretability, making it dif- ficult to integrate them seamlessly into optimization problems, such as those encountered in optimal dispatch. In recent years, physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) 9 have garnered significant attention within the research com- munity. A PINN seamlessly integrates domain knowledge, par- ticularly physics-based equations, into the standard neural net- work framework, making it a powerful tool for the simulation, parameter identification, and control of complex physical sys- tems 10 . This physics knowledge can inform the design of loss functions, initialization of model parameters, and the ar- chitecture of the neural network 11 . The inspiration from PINNs provide possible solutions to leverage both the data- driven method and the physics model to identify the parameters of gas pipeline network and help it integrated in the optimiza- tion problem. 1.2. Literature Review and Research Gap Previous studies have explored the parameter estimation of gas pipeline systems, which is critical for their e fficient and safe operation. These methods can be broadly classified into sev- eral categories: optimization-based methods, Kalman filtering techniques, neural network models, and other miscellaneous approaches. Optimization-based approaches aim to identify parameters by minimizing an objective function that quantifies error. For instance, a reduced-order model was developed in 12 and 13 , where nonlinear programming and a least squares ob- jective function were employed to estimate both the dynamic states and parameters of gas pipeline networks. Similarly, max- imum likelihood and least squares methods were utilized to Preprint submitted to Energy February 12, 2025 identify parameters in 14 . A Bayesian approach to parame- ter estimation, specifically targeting the friction coe fficient in gas networks, was proposed in 15 . Additionally, 16 em- ployed a lumped-parameter model under both stationary and non-stationary gas flows to estimate pipeline parameters. The work in 17 presented an optimization problem to determine the steady-state of gas networks, where a neural network was used to initialize the optimization process and expedite its solu- tion. Neural networks have also been explored extensively for parameter estimation, capitalizing on their ability to handle dy- namic processes in gas systems. A gray-box neural network model was presented in 18 to identify faults within gas sys- tems. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) models, known for their proficiency in sequence-based data, were applied to pre- dict pipeline shutdown pressures in 19 . In addition, a shortcut Elman network was proposed in 20 for dynamic simulations of gas networks. Kalman filtering is another e ffective method, particularly for dealing with noisy measurements in parameter estimation. For example, 21, 22 utilized the Kalman filter to estimate the dynamic states of natural gas pipelines. Furthermore, a robust Kalman filter-based approach, designed to mitigate the impact of
__label__energy	1 Autonomous Smart Grid Fault Detection Qiyue Li, Senior Member, IEEE, Yuxing Deng, Xin Liu, Wei Sun, Senior Member, IEEE, Weitao Li, Jie Li,Member, IEEE, Zhi Liu, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Smart grid plays a crucial role for the smart society and the upcoming carbon neutral society. Achieving autonomous smart grid fault detection is critical for smart grid system state awareness, maintenance and operation. This paper focuses on fault monitoring in smart grid and discusses the inherent technical challenges and solutions. In particular, we ﬁrst present the basic principles of smart grid fault detection. Then, we explain the new requirements for autonomous smart grid fault detection, the technical challenges and their possible solutions. A case study is introduced, as a preliminary study for autonomous smart grid fault detection. In addition, we highlight relevant directions for future research. Index Terms smart grid, autonomous fault detection, ma- chine learning, resource allocation, cloud computing, edge computing I. Introduction Smart grid is a power network that enables a two-way ﬂow of electricity and data through digital communica- tion technologies that can detect, react and proactively act on changes in usage and multiple issues. It plays a crucial role for the smart society and the upcoming carbon neutral society. The core technologies in smart grid include the sensing, communication, optimization and data analysis for various purposes 1 . Fault detection of smart grid is an important research problem that has attracted increasing attention from both academia and industry. It is essential to improve the performance and reduce disruptions of smart power systems. The presence of faults or incipient faults in smart grid can be determined by measuring and an- alyzing changes in electrical power (e.g., current and voltage), environmental and equipment parameters, a process known as smart grid fault detection. Achieving autonomous smart grid fault detection is crucial to sys- tem status awareness, maintenance and operation. With the continuous innovation of power systems and equipments, and the carbon neutral goals, more devices and technologies are used for fault detection. Qiyue Li, Yuxing Deng, Wei Sun and Weitao Li are with the School of Electrical Engineering and Automation, Hefei Univer- sity of Technology, Hefei, China, and also with the Engineer- ing Technology Research Center of Industrial Automation of An- hui Province, Hefei, China (e-mail: liqiyue mail.ustc.edu.cn; yx- deng mail.hfut.edu.cn; wsun hfut.edu.cn; wtli hfut.edu.cn). Xin Liu is with the State Grid Anhui Ultra High Voltage Company, Hefei, China (e-mail: hfutlx hotmail.com). Jie Li is with the School of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei, China (e-mail: lijie hfut.edu.cn). Zhi Liu is with The University of Electro-Communications, Japan (e-mail: liuzhi uec.ac.jp). Corresponding author: Zhi Liu.All these make fault detection in autonomous smart grid challenging. More complex operating conditions of new power system have put forward higher requirements for the state awareness and operation maintenance of power equipments: The operational safety of power equipments is the basis for reliable operation of the entire power grid. Comprehensive, timely and accurate sensing and adaptive adjustment is a prerequisite for ensuring the safety of power equipments 2 . With a high proportion of renewable energy accommodation, the new power system with strong uncertainty, high volatility and many harmonics will lead to more ex- treme and variable operating conditions, which puts forward higher requirements for safe and reliable operation 3 . It is necessary to solve the problems of real-time sensing, accurate assessment of equipment status and timely warning of potential faults under complex and variable conditions, and to study the strategy of long-term service maintenance, so as to realize lean management and e cient maintenance of power equipment and ensure the safety and reli- ability of long-term operation of power equipment under the complex operating conditions of new power system. The massive adoption of new power equipments has brought new challenges to operation and mainte- nance: New power equipment are the key infrastructures used to support the construction and development of new power systems, such as power conversion and control devices based on power electronics technology, large-scale energy storage equipment, o shore wind power access-related equipment, etc. These new types of power equipment have a rela- tively short history and are used in relatively few traditional power grids 4 . They lack e ective con- dition assessment methods that have been tested in practice 5 . The operation and maintenance tech- nology of the equipment is still immature, and basic scientiﬁc issues such as the mechanism and evolu- tion law of equipment failure need to be studied in depth. Carbon neutrality puts forward new requirements for the operation of power equipments: Green and high e ciency is one of the main features of the new power system 6 . While the power grid strongly supports the access and consumptionarXiv:2206.14150v1 cs.DC 27 May 2022 2 Fig. 1: Key components of smart grid system. From power generation, power transmission, power distribution including distributed energy resources, to power consumption, the status of all the hardware infrastructures needs to be sensed, transmitted by di erent networks, processed by local or cloud control center, to evaluate the safety and detect the fault of power grid. of renewable energy resources, it should further reduce the carbon emission level of the power grid itself, and realize the low-carbon transformation of planning, operation and maintenance. Consider- ing the huge number and rapid growth of power equipments, improving the utilization e ciency of existing power equipment and reducing equipment operating losses are important goals for the e cient operation of new power systems. The key issues that need to be studied mainly include real-time iden- tiﬁcation and accurate prediction methods of key parameters that a ect the utilization and service life of equipment, factors a ecting the comprehensive energy consumption of power grid equipment, and control strategies. To the best of our knowledge, there are still many unsolved research issues in autonomous smart grid fault detection. To this end, this paper ﬁrst presents the basic principles of smart grid fault detection. Then, we explain the new requirements
__label__energy	1 A Carryover Storage Valuation Framework for Medium-Term Cascaded Hydropower Planning: A Portland General Electric System Study Xianbang Chen, Student Member, IEEE, Yikui Liu, Member, IEEE, Zhiming Zhong, Neng Fan, Zhechong Zhao, Lei Wu, Fellow, IEEE Abstract Medium-term planning of cascaded hydropower (CHP) determines appropriate carryover storage levels in reser- voirs to optimize the usage of available water resources. This optimization seeks to maximize the hydropower generated in the current period (i.e., immediate benefit) plus the potential hydropower generation in the future period (i.e., future value). Thus, in the medium-term CHP planning, properly quantifying the future value deposited in carryover storage is essential to achieve a balanced trade-off between immediate benefit and future value. To this end, this paper presents a framework to quantify the future value of carryover storage, which consists of three major steps: i)constructing a model to calculate the maximum possible hydropower generation that a given level of carryover storage can deliver in the future period; ii)extracting the implicit locational marginal water value (LMWV) of car- ryover storage for each reservoir by applying a partition-then- extract algorithm to the constructed model; and iii)developing a set of analytical rules based on the extracted LMWV to effec- tively calculate the future value. These rules can be seamlessly integrated into medium-term CHP planning models as tractable mixed-integer linear constraints to quantify the future value properly, and can be easily visualized to offer valuable insights for CHP operators. Finally, numerical results on a CHP system of Portland General Electric demonstrate the effectiveness of the presented framework in determining proper carryover storage values to facilitate medium-term CHP planning. Index Terms Multi-parametric programming, locational marginal water value, cascaded hydropower. NOMENCLATURE Major symbols used throughout the paper are defined here, while others are clarified as needed after their first appearance. Sets and Indices: Bh Set of explored binaries for critical region (CR) h. In Set of units in reservoir n, indexed by i. L l Set index of weeks covered in the future period, i.e., l L T 1, ..., T L . N n Set index of reservoirs, i.e., n N 1, ..., N . Nn m Set index of direct upstream reservoirs of reservoir n. This work is supported in part by the U.S. Department of Energy s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) under the Water Power Technologies Office Award Number DE-EE0008944. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Department of Energy or the United States Government. X. Chen and L. Wu are with the ECE Department, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, NJ, 07030 USA. (Email: xchen130 stevens.edu; lei.wu stevens.edu) Y . Liu is with the Electrical Engineering Department, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610017 China. (Email: yikuiliu gmail.com) Z. Zhao is with Portland General Electric, Portland, OR, 97204 USA. (Email: zhechong.zhao pgn.com) Z. Zhong and N. Fan are with the Department of Systems and Indus- trial Engineering, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, 85721 USA. (Email: zhongz arizona.edu; nfan arizona.edu)R r, h Set indices of CRs, i.e., r, h R 1, ..., R . T t, τ Set indices of weeks covered in the current period, i.e.,t, τ T 1, ..., T . Decision Variables: Dni Discharge rate of unit ion reservoir n. m3 s Ini ON-OFF status of unit ion reservoir n. Ln-dis dis n Length of non-discharge discharge phase of reservoir nin the future period. week L vu Gap between discharge phases of reservoirs vandu. week Pni Hydropower dispatch of unit ion reservoir n. MW Sn Water spillage of reservoir n. Mm3 Vcs n Carryover storage of reservoir n, forming vector Vcs. Mm3 W n Water difference between the total inflows and out- flows of reservoir n. Mm3 Wi o vn Water inflow outflow from direct upstream reservoir vto reservoir nduring L vu. Zr Binary indicator for CR r. Superscript to indicate variables of the current period. Parameters: Cws n Water spillage penalty of reservoir n. MWh Mm3 DM m ni Max min discharge rate of unit ion reservoir n. m3 s eh, fhConstant vector and scalar to describe CR h. K Number of samples for the Bayesian neural network. L T Length of future current period. week Or h Number of inequalities to express CR r h. PM m ni Max min power limit of unit ion reservoir n. MW R Number of final CRs. Vcs,θ n The counterpart of Vcs nrepresenting parameters in the multi-parametric programming model. VM m n Max min storage level of reservoir n. Mm3 ˆWcp fpWater inflow prediction for the current future period. πrn LMWV of reservoir nin CR r. MWh Mm3 λ, α Unit-converting parameters, set as 168 h week and 0.6048 Mm3 s m3, respectively. Functions and Regions: A( ) Function for calculating immediate benefit. MWh F( ) Function for converting carryover storage (in m3 s) into future value (in MWh). PRtP( )Piece-wise linearized function converting discharge rate (in m3 s) into power (in MW). VEEntire feasible region of carryover storage. VCR r CRrthat is one of the final RCRs.VCR r VE. ˆVCR,VPCRs that could potentially be partitioned further.arXiv:2409.09876v2 eess.SY 8 Jan 2025 2 Abbreviations: BMDN Bayesian mixture density network CCP Chance-constrained programming CHP Cascaded hydropower CI Confidence interval CR Critical region DNN Deep neural network GMM Gaussian mixture model ICC Individual chance constraint IPLB Incumbent parametric lower bound JCC Joint chance constraint LMWV Locational marginal water value mp-LP Multi-parametric linear programming MAE Mean absolute error MAPE Mean absolute percentage error MILP Mixed-integer linear programming NSE Nash Sutcliffe model efficiency PGE Portland General Electric PT Pelton RB Round butte RMSE Root mean square error WI Water inflow I. I NTRODUCTION A. Background IN the U.S. electricity grid, hydropower fleets are valued as one of the golden assets because of their rapid respon- siveness and environmental benefits. Among these hydropower technologies, cascaded hydropower (CHP) stands out for its remarkable efficiency 1 . To manage CHP operations, CHP operators need to co- ordinate hierarchical decision-making tasks across multiple timescales, including the short-term scheduling problem to determine hydropower
__label__energy	1 Paving the way to carbon neutrality: Evaluating the decarbonization of residential building electrification worldwide Yuanyuan Wang 1 , Minda Ma 2 , 3, , Nan Zhou 3, Zhili Ma 1 1. School of Management Science and Real Estate, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 400045, PR China 2. School of Architecture and Urban Planning, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 400045, PR China 3. Building Technology and Urban Systems Division, Energy Technologies Area, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, United States Corresponding author: Dr. Minda Ma, Email: maminda lbl.gov Homepage: https: buildings.lbl.gov people minda -ma https: chongjian.cqu.edu.cn info 1556 6706.htm The coauthors from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory declare that this manuscript was authored by an author at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory under Contract No. DE -AC02 - 05CH11231 with the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government retains, and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication, acknowledges, that the U.S. Government retains a non -exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world -wide l icense to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript, or allows others to do so, for U.S. Government purposes. : The two authors contributed equally to the study. 2 Graphical abstract Graphical abstract. The decarbonization impacts of electrification of residential buildings worldwide: (a) the research framework ; (b) the impact s of residential building electrification on carbon intensity; (c) the spatiotemporal evolution of the decarbonization effect of residential building electrification. Note: Considering the data availability, lighting was exc luded in Northeast Asia. 2001-2006 2001-20 112001-2016 2001-2021 1700 MtCO2 0 3 Highlights Global residential electrification rose from 29.9 in 2000 to 40.1 in 2021. Global residential electricity emissions rose from 1452 to 2032 MtCO 2 in 2000 2021 . Electrification does not always lead to decarbonization in residential building s. Residential electrification achieved decarbonization of 188 MtCO 2 per yr worldwide . Power decarbonization is key to reducing emissions through electrification. 4 Abstract In the context of increasing global climate change, decarbo nizing the residential building sector is crucial for sustainable development. This study aims to analyze the role of various influencing factors in carbon intensity changes using the decomposing structural decomposition (DSD) to assess and compare the pot ential and effectiveness of electrifying end -use activities during the operational phase of residential buildings worldwide for decarbonization. The results show that (1) while the electrification rate varied in its impact on emissions across different cou ntries and regions, the overall increase in electrification contributed to higher carbon intensity. In contrast, changes in the emission factor of electricity generally made a positive contribution to emission reduction globally. (2) The global electrifica tion level has significantly increased, with the electrification rate rising from 29.9 in 2000 to 40.1 in 2021. A 39.8 increase in the electricity -related carbon emissions of global residential buildings was observed, increasing from 1452 MtCO 2 to 2032 MtCO 2, 2000 2021 . (3) From 2000 to 2021, electrification of space heating was the main contributor to carbon reduction, whereas the contributions of electrification to cooling and lighting were relatively limited. Emission reductions from appliances and ot hers remained stable. The electrification of water heating and cooking had varying effects on emission reductions in different countries. Furthermore, this study proposes a series of electrification decarbonization strategies. Overall, this study analyzes and contrasts decarbonization efforts from building electrification at the global and regional levels, explores the key motivations behind these efforts to aid national net -zero emission targets and accelerate the transition of the global residential build ing sector toward a carbon -neutral future. Keywords Global residential buildings Building electrification End-use performance Operational carbon emissions DSD approach Deep decarbonization strategies 5 Abbreviation notation DSD Decomposing structural decom position GDP Gross domestic product HFC Household final consumption kgCO 2 Kilograms of carbon dioxide MtCO 2 Mega tons of carbon dioxide Nomenclature 𝐶 Total carbon emissions during residential building operations 𝑐 Carbon emissions released b y each household 𝐶𝑖 (𝑖 1, ,6) Carbon emissions from six end uses 𝐶𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑒 (𝑖 1, ,6) Carbon emissions related electricity use from six end uses 𝐷𝐶 Total decarbonization DCI Decarbonization per household E Energy consumption during re sidential building operations 𝐸𝑖 (𝑖 1, ,6) Energy consumption by end -use i 𝐸𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑒 (𝑖 1, ,6) Energy consumption related electricity use from six end uses e Energy intensity g GDP per capita H Amount of households h Household consum ption capacity k Electricity emission factor m Electrification rate n The f actor of total emissions relative to electricity -related carbon emissions in each end -use activity (expression is 𝐶𝑖 𝐶𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑒) P Population p Average household size s End-use structure 6 1. Introduction The building sector plays a major role in worldwide energy consumption 1, 2 , and its decarbonization is vital amid worsening climate change 3 . Residential buildings, a major sub - sector , consume substantial energy and produce large amounts of carbon dioxide during operations 4 , particularly from end uses such a s space heating 5, 6 , spac e cooling, lighting, and cooking 7 . In 2022, the International Energy Agency (IEA) reported that residential buildings accounted for about 25 of global energy consumption 8 , driven by increasing urbanization and housing demand 9 . Electrif ication is emerging as a key strategy for low -carbon transition in buildings 10 , focusing on converting energy end uses such as space heating and water heating 11 into electricity -driven systems. This shift reduces reliance on fossil fuels and enhances energy efficiency 12 . As a result, residential building electrification is widely regarded as an effective pathway for reducing carbon emissions. End-use electrification is rapidly becoming a central trend in the evolution of building energy systems 13 . According to the IEA, expanding electrification alongside a cleaner electricity mix is critical for the transition to a low -carbon energy future. One key measure in this process is the replacement of coal -fired boilers with electric heat pumps, which significantly reduces direct emissions in buildings 14 . Beyond this, electrifying gas -based systems including space heating, water heating,
__label__energy	1 Synchronous Inductor Switched Energy Extraction Circuits for Triboelectric Nanogenerator Madhav Pathak, Student Member, IEEE, and Ratnesh Kumar, Fellow, IEEE This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible.Abstract Triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG), a class of mechanical to electrical energy transducers, has emerged as a promising solution to self-power Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, wearable electronics, etc. The use of synchronous switched energy extraction circuits (EECs) as an interface between TENG and battery load can deliver multi-fold energy gain over simple minded Full Wave Rectiﬁcation (FWR). This paper presents a detailed analysis of Parallel and Series Synchronous Switched Harvesting on Inductor (P-SSHI and S-SSHI) EECs to derive the energy delivered to the battery load and compare it with the standard FWR (a 3rd circuit) in a common analytical framework, under both realistic conditions, and also ideal conditions. Further, the optimal value of battery load to maximize output and upper bound beyond which charging is not feasible are derived for all the three considered circuits. These closed-form results derived with general TENG electrical parameters and ﬁrst-order circuit non-idealities shed light on the physics of the modeling and guide the choice and design of EECs for any given TENG. The derived analytical results are veriﬁed against PSpice based simulation results as well as the experimentally measured values. Index Terms energy harvesting, triboelectric nanogenerator, switched circuits, internet of things I. I NTRODUCTION : M OTIVATION AND OBJECTIVES ONE of the major challenges faced by today s ever- expanding ﬁeld of mobile electronics, Internet of Things (IoT), implantables, and wearable electronics is limited on- board battery lifetime. Placing a high capacity battery presents the demerits of increased size, weight, maintenance, and cost. Hence, recent years have seen a tremendous interest in inte- grating a miniaturized energy harvester to increase the battery life by scavenging the ambient energy 1 . Many potential sources of energy are available in the environment, such as mechanical, solar, thermal, and chemical 2 5 . Among these, tapping the mechanical energy in the form of ambient vibration, human body motion, airﬂow, ocean currents, etc., is almost always possible. Hence, mechanical to electrical energy transducers have received signiﬁcant attention both academically and commercially 6 . Recently, a new class of mechanical to electrical en- ergy transducers termed triboelectric nanogenerators (TENGs) based on the conjugation of friction-induced electriﬁcation with electrostatic induction as its working principle have been developed 7 . A major advantage of TENG is almost all ma- terials have triboelectric properties, offering the ﬂexibility of design, fabrication, and operation mode to suit the application 8 . TENG based on low-cost paper, stretchable interwoven threads, printed circuit board (PCB), and environmentally This work was supported in part by U.S. National Science Foundation under grants NSF-CCF-1331390, NSF-ECCS-1509420, NSF-PFI-1602089, and NSF-CSSI-2004766. The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011 USA (e-mail: mpathak iastate.edu; rkumar iastate.edu).degradable materials are some of the many examples, demon- strating the versatility of TENG 9 12 . TENGs have been employed in terms of application, ranging from harnessing heartbeat vibration for implantables to ocean wave motions for large scale energy harvesting 13 , 14 . There remain engineering and technical challenges, e.g., integrating TENG with electronic devices for practical appli- cations, optimal design of transducer, and energy extraction: A critical issue arises from the fact that TENG s output har- nessing energy from environment with ﬂuctuating movement is non-D.C. and random. Hence, it needs to be rectiﬁed to a stable positive form to be able to charge an on-board battery or capacitor. Also, TENGs are capacitive in nature with high inherent impedance, which might be ﬁxed or non- linearly varying based on the mode of TENG 15 . Hence, directly charging battery or capacitor with TENG will in general, lead to a poor charging efﬁciency due to a severe impedance mismatch. Thus, an interface circuit referred to as Energy Extraction Circuit (EEC) is required between a TENG and energy storage (battery or capacitor). Full Wave Rectiﬁer (FWR) is one of the simplest EEC in terms of implementation 16 , 17 . However, it has been demonstrated in the literature that higher per-cycle energy output can be achieved by more complex EEC architectures such as switched circuits 18 . Our previous work introduced synchronous switched inductor circuits as EECs for TENG, which involve switching at the TENG voltage output extrema to obtain manifold gain over the FWR output. Wherein, Par- allel Synchronous Switched Harvesting on Inductor (P-SSHI), and Series Synchronous Switched Harvesting on Inductor (S- SSHI) EECs for TENG transducers were introduced for the ﬁrst time to best of our knowledge 19 . This work extends it by providing a full mathematical derivation, a complete simulation and includes additional results on hardware imple- mentation and validation with the following contributions: The closed-form equations for the per-cycle energy output (Ecycle) of both the P-SSHI and S-SSHI circuits at a given battery load are derived for the ﬁrst time. In addi- tion, the upper limit on battery load, optimal battery load, and corresponding maximum Ecycle for both the SSHI circuits are also derived. Effect of TENG parameters (determined by construction and operation of the given TENG) and circuit non-idealities on the Ecycle have been captured in our models to guide the design of these EECs. Incorporation of the following critical non-idealities in the analytical model to study their adverse effect on the output energy ( Ecycle) and also to provide a more accurate model for both the SSHI circuits: Leakage charge through any off switch over a cyclearXiv:2102.04581v1 physics.app-ph 9 Feb 2021 2 and also due to other sources such as ringing tran- sients of oscillators at switch toggle times; Limited quality factor of the resonator circuits de- termined by parasitic resistance of inductor and the on-state resistance of switches; On-state voltage drop of diodes. Experimental implementation of FWR and both the SSHI circuits using self-propelled electronic
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	1 On the Carbon Dioxide Capture by Quaternary Ammonium -Based and Phosphonium -Based Ionic Liquids . The Role of Steric Hindrances and Transition States Vitaly V. Chaban(1) (1) P.E.S., Vasilievsky Island, Saint Petersburg 190000 , Russian Federation. Abstract . Global warming is seen as a drastic environmental problem nowadays. Carb on dioxide (CO 2) concentration i n the Earth s atmosphere is linked to the average temperature on the surface of the planet. Carbon capture and storage is an important technological endeavor aiming to improve the ecology. The present work investigates reaction paths that are responsible for CO 2 chemis orption by the ammonium - and phosphonium -based ionic liquids containing an aprotic heterocyclic anion 2-cyanopyrrolidine . We show that two moles of CO 2 per one mole of the gas scavenger can be theoretically fixed by such ionic liquids . Both the cation and anion participate in the chemisorption. The corresponding standard enthalpies are moderately negative. The barriers of all reactions involving the phosphonium -based cation are relatively small and favor practical applications of the considered sorbents. The performance of the ammonium -based cation is less favorable due to the inherent instability of the tetraalkyl ammonium ylide. The role is phosphoniu m ylide in the mechanism of the reaction is carefully characterized. The reported results foster a fundamental understanding of the outstanding CO 2 sorption p erformance of the quaternary ammonium and phosphonium -based 2-cyanopyrrolidine s. Keywords : ammonium -based ionic liquids ; phosphonium -based ionic liquids ; carbon dioxide; ionic liquids . 2 Graphical Abstract 3 Introduction The term of global warming stands for the designation of the large -scale trend .1 During the last twelve decades, t he average Earth s temperature increased by 0.08 degrees Celsius per year. Furthermore, during the last forty years , the pace of this change increased more than twice. Although the recorded changes may seem insignificant for a non -speci alist, they do have ecological consequences including thawing of glaciers, climate changes, more acidic oceans, etc.2-4 Human technologies lead to higher emissions of carbon dioxide ( CO 2) that may be the cause of environmental problems. The technological superstructures are currently being developed aiming to capture, store and chemi cally modify CO 2 to obtain useful and or benign products.5,6 CO 2 is a highly thermodynamically stable compound that is a final product of organic matter combustion . Its stability is a major reason why CO 2 scavenging is a challenging chemical endeavor that will likely never get a straightforward solution . Nevertheless, novel robust methods for CO 2 processing7-15 can be elaborated and industrially implemented.5 Thoughtful application and fine -tuning of the versatile nanoscale pores play a paramount role in the gradual i ncrease of the presently available CO 2 sorption capacities.16-19 Apart from the up-to-date breakthrough developments, a mine scrubbing is a leading and well -established technology nowadays, even though it presents evident drawbacks, such as perpetual degeneration of the amine solution s due to their working chemical reaction s.20,21 Time is necessary for humanity to implement more chemically advanced solutions on the large scale. Room -temperature ionic liquids (RT ILs) represent a huge -sized class of organic - inorganic chemical compounds that are liquid at standard conditions.22-28 The liquid state of the prospective CO 2 sorbent is a definite advantage since it allows the gas molecules to spontaneously diffuse to the location where chemisorption takes place. Furthermore, RTILs exhibit negligible volatility even in their pure state thanks to a strong cation -anion attraction . 4 An ideal CO 2 sorbent would allow reversible chemisorption so that the fixed gas could be extracted and the working liquid could be regenerated . RTILs contain chemically tunable structures meaning that new compounds can be synthesized on request in a relatively easy way. Fine-tunable physical -chemical properties form a prerequisite to develop ing task-specific systems and environments . Computer simulations of RTILs constitute a large , vivid , and vigorously developing research field with substantial methodological and engine ering advances .29-33 Padua and coworkers32 recently developed a highly efficient polarizable force field to simulate condensed phases of ionic liquids. In turn, Canongia Lopes and coworkers made a conside rable impact on the understanding of versatile aqueous ionic liquid -based systems through the simulation of peculiar non -covalent interactions.30,31 Cordeiro and coworkers contributed an advanced description of the ionic liquids behavior at the interface and linked new insights to the differen tial capacitance of a possible electrochemical device.33 Andreeva and coworkers investigated thermo dynamics for a large num ber of ionic liquid famili es and outlined their suitability to act as non -volatile and non -flammable CO 2 sorbents.34,35 The most promising RTILs in the context of CO 2 sorption are composed of bulky organic cations and chemically reactive anions .23,25,27 The aprotic heterocyclic anions (AHA s) represent an interesting family of organic structures with a set of potential applications in different field s of chemical engineering due to their strong affinity to the proton . This feature of AHAs can arguably convert many thermodynamically forbidden reactions into favorable ones. It is essential to couple AHAs with the bulky and asymmetric cations to block all strong electrostatic attractions in the resulting liquid -state system. The organic structures with the delocalized excess or deficient electronic charge steric ally prevent RTILs from crystallizing at the ambient temperature . Higher conformation flexibility of the particles favors their smarter performance gas greenhouse gas scavenger s. The inability of the cation and the anion to attain a distinct 5 electrostatically -driven coordination pattern liberate their potential to bind CO 2. Upon the development of competitive AHA -based RTILs, there is alw ays an interplay of melting point and shear viscosity that limits out possibilities to tune physical -chemical properties of the prospective CO 2 scavengers.36 In the present theoretical work, we investigate a few of the most promising ionic liquids in the context of CO 2 capture. Indeed, i n the tetrabutylammonium 2-cyanopyrrolidine and tetrabutylphosphonium 2 -cyanopyrrolidine ,
__label__energy	Resilience of the Electric Grid through Trustable IoT-Coordinated Assets Vineet J. Naira,1, Priyank Srivastavab, Venkatesh Venkataramananc, Partha S. Sarkerd, Anurag Srivastavad, Laurentiu D. Marinovicie, Jun Zhaf, Christopher Irwing, Prateek Mittalh, John Williamsi, Jayant Kumarf, H. Vincent Poorh,1, and Anuradha M. Annaswamya This manuscript was compiled on February 3, 2025 The electricity grid has evolved from a physical system to a cyber-physical system with digital devices that perform measurement, control, communication, computation, and actuation. The increased penetration of distributed energy resources (DERs) including renewable generation, flexible loads, and storage provides extraordinary opportunities for improvements in efficiency and sustainability. However, they can introduce new vulnerabilities in the form of cyberattacks, which can cause significant challenges in ensuring grid resilience. We propose a framework in this paper for achieving grid resilience through suitably coordinated assets including a network of Internet of Things (IoT) devices. A local electricity market is proposed to identify trustable assets and carry out this coordination. Situational Awareness (SA) of locally available DERs with the ability to inject power or reduce consumption is enabled by the market, together with a monitoring procedure for their trustability and commitment. With this SA, we show that a variety of cyberattacks can be mitigated using local trustable resources without stressing the bulk grid. Multiple demonstrations are carried out using a high-fidelity co-simulation platform, real-time hardware-in-the-loop validation, and a utility-friendly simulator. grid resilience Internet-of-Things local electricity market distributed energy resources trustable assets smart grids The electricity grid is going through a rapid transformation in an effort toward deep decarbonization. Large synchronous generators powered by fossil fuels such as oil, natural gas, and coal are being phased out in favor of solar and wind- based generation. While the latter enables the necessary move towards a reduced carbon footprint, it brings two major challenges in ensuring reliable and resilient delivery of electricity to the end-user. The first of these is the temporal signature of these renewables the amount of generation varies with time, both in terms of intermittency and uncertainty. The second is that these are distributed and large in number. A strong enabler of the scale of the DERs is IoT, which denotes a network of physical devices such as water heaters (WHs), air-conditioners, and electric vehicles (EVs), as they enable automated and fast operation of various loads. And their pervasiveness brings in complexities of heterogeneity, decentralization, and scale. In order to ensure the reliability of the grid despite these challenges, a precise coordination of these DERs, both in space and time, has to be carried out. In particular, power balance of generation and consumption has to be ensured at all locations and at each instant. These challenges are being overcome using a pervasive cyber layer that senses, communicates, coordinates, and enables the requisite power injection and consumption throughout the grid. In addition to reliability, an essential property of the electricity grid is resilience (1). This central property, which denotes the ability of the grid to withstand and recover quickly to supply critical loads following a major disruption, such as an outage, a natural calamity, a cyberattack, or a cascading failure, is paramount, even with higher penetration of DERs. In this context of ensuring resilience, the very transformations that enable deep decarbonization, including the development of cyber-grid infrastructure, adoption of IoT devices, use of dynamic renewable energy sources, and increased electrification of transportation, could also introduce new vulnerabilities. Cyberattacks can disclose, deceive, or disrupt crucial information, thereby causing significant damage, ranging from small outages to brownouts and blackouts. Recent reports ( 2 5) indicate the ubiquity, ease, and scale of cyberattacks on sensitive industrial environments including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), operational technology (OT), and industrial control systems (ICS), underscoring the importance of ensuring resilience to such adversaries.Significance Statement This paper provides a frame- work for achieving power grid re- silience against cyber-physical at- tacks through the coordination of resources at the grid edge that are trustable and resilient. It is pro- posed that such coordination can be enabled through a suite of mar- ket operators suitably located in a distribution grid. We use this coor- dination to validate the mitigation of attacks of different levels of severity, with attack magnitudes that range from 5 to 40 of the total peak load. Both grid-connected and islanded cases are studied. In all cases, we show that grid resilience can be obtained through a combination of locally available flexible assets and reconfiguration of the grid topology. Author affiliations:aDepartment of Mechanical Engineer- ing, MIT, Cambridge, MA 02139;bDepartment of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, India;cNational Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO;dWest Virginia University, Morgantown, WV;ePacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA;fLarsen Turburo Digital Energy Services, San Francisco, CA;gOffice of Electricity, Department of Energy, Washington, DC;iDepartment of Civil and Environmental Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA 02139;hPrinceton University A.M.A, V.N., P .S., V.V., and H.V.P . designed research; A.M.A., V.N., P .S., and V.V. performed research; V.N., P .S., V.V., and P .S.S. developed the analytical tools, V.N., L.M., J.Z., and V.V. performed validation; A.M.A., V.N., P .S., V.V., and A.S. wrote the paper; C.I., P .M., J.W., and J.K. provided critical inputs and valuable guidance. The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 1To whom correspondence should be addressed. E- mail: jvineet9 mit.edu, poor princeton.edu www.pnas.org cgi doi 10.1073 pnas.XXXXXXXXXX PNAS February 3, 2025 vol. XXX no. XX 1 40arXiv:2406.14861v4 eess.SY 30 Jan 2025 By and large, most of the information for power grid operations flows through utility-controlled communication networks which are more reliable and resilient than commer- cial networks, and utilize commercial telecommunications services for other informational needs such as accessing the internet and communicating with customers. Such a tight separation is challenged by the increased information flow which becomes necessary with a stronger presence of a cyber-layer, which in turn is necessitated due to increased coordination and automation at the grid edge. What have remained as tight closed systems thus far, may have to relax their boundaries, introducing complexities in the underlying communication. While air gaps and protections will always
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	Indonesian Journal of Electrical Enginee ring and Computer Science Vol. 26, No. 1, April 2022, pp. 1 8 ISSN: 2502 -4752, DOI: 10.11591 ijeecs.v 26.i1.pp1-8 1 Journal homepage : http: ijeecs.iaescore.com Electricity generation from renewable energy based on abandoned wind fan Arni Munira Markom1, Muhammad Hakimi Aiman Hadri1, Tuah Zayan Muhamad Yazid1, Zakiah Mohd Yusof1, Marni Azira Markom2,3, Ahmad Razif Muhammad4 1School of Electrical Engineering, Col lege of Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA , Johor, Malaysia 2Faculty of Electronic Engineering Technology, Universiti Malaysia Perlis, Perlis, Malaysia 3Advance Sensor Technology, Centre of Excellence, Universiti Malaysia Perlis, Perlis, Malaysia 4Institute of Microengineering and Nanoelectronics (IMEN), Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia , Selangor, Malaysia Article Info ABSTRACT Article history: Received Sep 2, 2021 Revised Jan 18, 2022 Accepted Feb 4, 2022 In the 21st century, our world is facing d ifficult conditions for serious environmental pollution and the problem of energy shortage. An innovative idea has emerged to recycle wind energy from air conditioning condenser fans in outdoor buildings. Therefore, the main goal of this research is to develop renewable wind energy from the condenser fan of an air conditioner using Arduino as a microcontroller. This research moves towards a portable, low cost, environmentally friendly mini device that harnesses renewable energies with endless resources for future alternative power generation and reduces the burden of consumers electricity bills. Keyword s: Arduino project Electric circuit Electricity generation Renewable energy Wind energy This is an open access article under the CC BY -SA license. Corresponding Author: Arni Munira Markom School of Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA Johor, Malaysia Email: arnimunira uitm.edu.my 1. INTRODUCTION A rene wable energy is energy produced from natural sources to replace the shrinking and dangerous fossil fuels. Ahmad et al. stated that over 90 of fossil fuels are greenhouse gases released through carbon dioxide emissions 1 . The increasing concentration of greenhouse gases is what causes the temperature rise in the atmosphere, known as global warming. Then this hot temperature will melt the polar ice, causing sea level rise on land and climate change worldwide 2 , 3 . As a result, renewable energy has received tremendous attention in most countries for its environmentally friendly, reasonable cost, abundance of natural sources, efficiency, and practical uses 4 6 . Even if the system faces many challenges to be used on a large scale, especially in the third country, and limited technology experts, this renewable energy emerges over the years. Wind source is one of the renewable energies. Wind is an occasional source of energy that, due to its fluctuating nature, hinders the system, but is still a sustainable and natural source 7 , 8 . This energy is required by a wind turbine in order to generate kinetic energy from the rotation of the turbine. Then it is converted into electrical energy by a converter, which can be stored and used for many electrical appliances. Compared t o other energy sources, a wind turbine has the lowest impact on the environment because it can avoid air or water pollution from emissions from the water -cooling process 9 . As a result, it can generate safe electrical energy without the need for fossil fuels by reducing the severe air pollution and the release of carbon dioxide. ISSN : 2502 -4752 Indonesian J Elec Eng Comp Sci , Vol. 26, No. 1, April 2022: 1-8 2 The consumers of air conditioners (air conditioners) in homes or large buildings are increasing due to the hot weather in Malaysia. The free and abandoned wind source from the air conditioner condenser fan outside the home or building is something we can offer to add more benefit to renewable energy use. In addition, large consumers of air conditioning systems suffer from high electricity bills, especially in Malaysia, due to the high -power consumption of the air conditioning system itself. Meanwhile, traditional wind systems suffer from a huge and heavy wind tu rbine and high acquisition costs for the construction of the wind turbines. There are many renewable energy projects around the world that use wind as a natural source of electricity, for example in Poland, India, Kenya, Brazil and Netherlands 10 14 . China is now the largest producer of wind energy 15 . The main reason for these countries to recycle wind as energy because they have large open land areas, they can by and large implement their gigantic wind turbines on their land. In this article we will only focus on writing a literature review based on Arduino for your wind turbine projects. In the paper, Mahmuddin et al. developed a wind generator that uses Arduino as a microcontroller and is able to control the overload voltage 16 . The charge controller with controller relay to increase the heating and power generator safety during the chargin g process. However, this application of the charge controller is unsuccessful because of the strong stability of the power delivery of the alternating current (AC) ventilator, and therefore the system does not exceed the charge voltage. A small Arduino MEG A-based wind power generation system was developed by Mubarok et al. using a 3 -blade wind turbine 17 . A rotating rotor blade speed, wind speed, wind direction and voltage generated by the direct current (DC) generator were measured and analyzed. The mechanical energy from wind turbines was then converted into electrical energy and stored in a battery. An inexpensive and portable electric generator that uses wind and water sources and is used solely as a replacement for a power bank to charge a cell phone, by Ramli et al. 18 . A wind and water generator were used to generate electricity to charge the cellphone with an Arduino as the project s microcontroller. A liquid crystal display (LCD) was used to show the voltage generated when the cell phone was being charged by the system. In the pa per, Patil et al. 19 designed a hybrid power generation with an Arduino as a microcontro ller using wind and water energy
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Abstract A novel approach of tracking the dynamic trajectories for electricity - gas interconnect ed networks is developed in the studies, leveraging a Kalman filter - based structure. To capture the accurate system trajectories, the Holt s exponential smoothing techniques and nonlinear dynamic equations of gas pipelines are applied to establish the powe r and gas system equations, respectively. Addressing the numerical challenges posed by the strongly nonlinear system, a square - root cubature Kalman technique based tracking solution is adopted. For the effectiveness in time series prediction, the mass flow rates forecasting task of gas loads is undertaken by employing a long short - term memory network at each computation step. Consequently, a combined method for tracking the dynamic trajectories of comprehensive energy systems by combining these two algorith ms is constructed. The IEEE - 39 bus network as well as the GasLib - 40 node gas network is integrated by gas turbine units to form the multi - energy network, and two indexes are introduced for a numerical analysis of the tracking performances. The outcomes dem onstrate that the suggested approach significantly improves tracking accuracy when contrasted with the reference measurements. Index Terms integrated energy system, LSTM, SCKF, trajectory tracking This work was supported in part by t he National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 52077105, and in part by Excellent Research and Innovation Teams in Universities in Anhui Province under Grant 2023AH01002 1 (Corresponding author: Liang Chen, Yang Li and Jun Cai .) Liang Chen is with C - MEIC, CICAEET, School of Automation, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology , Nanjing , 210044 , China (e - mail: ch.lg nuist.edu.cn ). Yang Li is with the School of Electrical Engineering, Northeast Electric Power University, Jilin 132012, China (e - mail: liyang neepu.edu.cn). J un Cai, is with C - MEIC, CICAEET, and School of Automati on, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing 210044, China ; he is also with School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Anhui Jianzhu University, Hefei 230009, China. (E - mail: j.cai nuist.edu.cn) Songlin Gu is with State Grid Economic and Technological Research Institute Co., Ltd, Beijing , 102209, China (e - mail: gsl0516 163.com). Ying Yan is with C - MEIC, CICAEET, School of Automation, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China; he is also with School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Anhui Jianzhu University, Hefei, 230009 (e - mail: ying.yan nuist.edu.cn) . I. I NTRODUCTION ITH the escalating demand for sustainable and efficient energy in our increasingly eco - conscious world, integrated energy systems (IESs) 1 emerge as a pivotal solution to contemporary energy challenges. IESs epitomize the synergy of various energy resources, orchestrating them into a cohesive u nit for a more efficient, clean, and reliable energy supply. The significance of IESs extends beyond mere energy sustainability; they are instrumental in enhancing the overall efficiency of energy systems, curtailing environmental pollution, and fostering sustainable development. However, the efficient operation and management of IESs have many challenges 2 . Due to the involvement of various energies in the system, such as electric power, nature gas pipelines and heating networks, the complex interacti ons and dynamic processes between these energy systems make system optimal operation 3 and control 4 very complex. To ensure efficiency, it is crucial to accurately track the real - time states of the IESs, forecast future states, and make informed decis ions for intelligent scheduling and optimization. Traditionally, least squares - based state estimation 5 has been employed to model and process data, providing precise static state information vital for optimal operation and control. However, with the ad vent of new energy sources, the dynamics of IESs have grown increasingly complex. As a result, conventional static state estimation methods may no longer suffice for the real - time monitoring and optimization required in modern IESs. An effective solution t o the aforementioned problem is the implementation of a tracking method based on Kalman filter structure 6 , a widely - used mathematical technique for estimating the states of dynamic systems. It combines the system dynamic model with real - time observed da ta to provide accurate dynamic state information 7 . The fundamental principle involves integrating the system dynamic model and measurements to minimize the expected error of the estimation. To tracking the dynamics of the generators, the unscented Kalma n filter (UKF) is applied in 8 . The principle is combining generator dynamic equations and measurements to obtain high accurate dynamic trajectory. As for the IESs, the dynamic models should be established firstly. In 9 , the nonlinear dynamic equations of gas networks are linearized based on some given assumptions, and then the linear model of gas systems is proposed, which makes it possible to track the dynamic trajectory of the IESs by using Kalman filter method. SCKF - LSTM Based Trajectory Tracking for Electricity - Gas Integrated Energy System Lia n g Chen , Yang Li, Senior Member , IEEE , Jun Cai , Songlin Gu , and Ying Yan W Nomenclature E , E smoothing indexes , E , E 0, 1 v , w predicting errors and measuring errors x E t state vector of electric power systems S Q , S R covariance of predictions and measurements n B the total number of buses , i t X cubature point of tr acking values e i t , f i t voltage phasor real part and imaginary parts t S tracking error covariance , gas density and gas flow rate n x total number of states , time and space along pipelines t x tracking state vector d , A diameter and cross section area of pipelines , 1 i t X predicted cubature point c S constant sound speed 1 t x predicted states friction factor 1 t centered matrix of cubature points L P ij , d ij , A ij length, diameter and cross section area of pipeline ij 1 t S
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	arXiv:1809.10882v1 stat.AP 28 Sep 2018Application of the novel fractional grey model FAGMO(1,1, k) to predict China s nuclear energy consumption Wenqing Wua, Xin Maa,b, , Bo Zengc, Yong Wangd,b, Wei Caie aSchool of Science, Southwest University of Science and Tech nology, 621010, Mianyang, China bState Key Laboratory of Oil and Gas Reservoir Geology and Exp loitation, Southwest Petroleum University, 610500, Chengdu, China cCollege of Business Planning, Chongqing Technology and Bus iness University, 400067, Chongqing, China dSchool of Science, Southwest Petroleum University, 610500 , Chengdu, China eCollege of Engineering and Technology, Southwest Universi ty, 400715, Chongqing, China Abstract At present, the energy structure of China is shifting towards clea ner and lower amounts of carbon fuel, driven by environmental needs and techn ological ad- vances. Nuclear energy, which is one of the major low-carbon reso urces, plays a key role in China s clean energy development. To formulate appropria te energy policies, it is necessary to conduct reliable forecasts. This paper dis cusses the nuclear energy consumption of China by means of a novel fractiona l grey model FAGMO(1,1, k). The fractional accumulated generating matrix is introduced to analyse the fractional grey model properties. Thereafter, the modelling proce- dures of the FAGMO(1,1, k) are presented in detail, along with the transforms of its optimal parameters. A stochastic testing scheme is provided to validate the accuracy and properties of the optimal parameters of the FA GMO(1,1, k). Finally, this model is used to forecast China s nuclear energy consum ption and the results demonstrate that the FAGMO(1,1, k) model provides accurate pre- diction, outperforming other grey models. Keywords: Nuclear energy consumption, Grey system, Fractional order https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2018.09.155 Corresponding author: Xin Ma Email address: cauchy7203 gmail.com (Xin Ma ) accumulation, Optimised parameter, Energy forecasting 1. Introduction Energy is the most important strategic resource and provides a ke y material basis for economic development and social progress. Energy cons umption pre- diction constitutes an important aspect of energy policies for coun tries globally, particularly developing countries such as China, where the energy c onsumption structure is changing at a rapid speed. Numerous models have been intro- duced for forecasting energy consumption, such as dynamic caus ality analysis 1 , nonlinear and asymmetric analysis 2 , time-series analysis 3, 4 , ma chine learning models 5 , the coupling mathematical model 6, 7, 8 , autoreg ressive distributed lag model 9 , hybrid forecasting system 10, 11 , machinin g system 12 , fuzzy systems 13 , LEAP model 14, 15 , TIMES model 16, 17 , NE MS model 18, 19 and grey model 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 . A mong these prevalent methods, simple linear regression, multivariate linear regr ession, and time-series analysis are often signiﬁcant in accurately demonstrat ing the phe- nomena of long-term trends. However, these exhibit the limitations of requiring a large amount of observed data, at least 50 or more sets, to cons truct mod- els. The computational intelligence method requires a substantial a mount of training data to derive the optimised parameters. However, in many practical situations, it is very diﬃcult and sometimes even impossible to obtain co m- plete information. Therefore, it is important to identify a favourab le method for forecasting the trend of an analysed system using scarce info rmation with less errors. The grey forecasting theory, proposed by Professor Deng 29 , o ﬀers a fea- sible and eﬃcient method for dealing with uncertain problems containin g poor information. The main advantage of this theory is that only four or m ore sam- plesarerequiredtodescribethe behaviourandevolutionofthe ana lysedsystem. In Deng s pioneering work, the ﬁrst-order one variable grey model GM(1,1) was discussed in detail. Over three decades of development, the classic al contin- 2 uous GM(1,1) model has been studied extensively; for example, by X ie et al. 30, 31, 32 , Wang et al. 33, 34, 35 , Ma et al. 36, 37, 38, 39 and othe rs. However, we note that these generalised grey models all include inte ger-order accumulation, which results in less ﬂexibility in time-series forecasting . Thus, the fractional-order accumulation grey model is considered in this p aper. By extending the integer accumulated generating operation into th e frac- tional accumulated generating operation, Wu et al. 40 ﬁrst propo sed the frac- tional accumulation GM(1,1) model known as the FAGM(1,1) model. Th e com- putational results demonstrated that the novel model outperf ormed the conven- tional GM(1,1) model. Later, Wu and his peers successfully applied fr actional accumulation to the fuel production of China 41 , tourism demand 4 2 and electricity consumption 43 . Subsequently, Xiao et al. 44 studied t he GM(1,1) model, in which they regarded the fractional accumulated generat or matrix as a type of generalised accumulated generating operation. Gao et al. 4 5 presented a new discrete fractional accumulation GM(1,1) model known as FAG M(1,1,D) and applied it to China s CO 2emissions. Mao et al. 46 investigated a novel fractional grey model FGM( q,1). Interested readers can refer to 47, 48, 49, 50 for further details on fractional accumulation grey models. A further signiﬁcant issue in grey system theory is that the solution applied for prediction does not match the grey diﬀerence equation. In 200 9, Kong and Wei 51 proposed a parameter optimisation technique to study the DGM(2,1) model. Later, Chen et al. used a similar technique to improve the GM(1 ,1) 52 and ONGM(1,1) models 53 , in which the basic structure of the original models remain in the optimised ones. Recently, Ma and Liu 54 studied the exa ct non- homogeneous grey prediction model (ENGM) with an exact basic equ ation and backgroundvalue. Thereafter, Ma and Liu 55 considered the GMC (1,n) model with optimised parameters and applied it to forecasting the urban co nsumption per capita and industrial power consumption of China. Following the c oncept of fractional accumulation and the parameter optimisation method , we propose a novel FAGMO(1,1, k) model. In
__label__energy	1 Multi-Objective Transmission Expansion: An Offshore Wind Power Integration Case Study Saroj Khanal, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Christoph Graf, Zhirui Liang, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Yury Dvorkin, Member, IEEE, and Burc in Unel Abstract Despite ambitious offshore wind targets in the U.S. and globally, offshore grid planning guidance remains notably scarce, contrasting with well-established frameworks for onshore grids. This gap, alongside the increasing penetration of offshore wind and other clean-energy resources in onshore grids, highlights the urgent need for a coordinated planning framework. Our paper describes a multi-objective, multistage generation, storage and transmission expansion planning model to facilitate efficient and resilient large-scale adoption of offshore wind power. Recognizing regulatory emphasis and, in some cases, requirements to consider externalities, this model explicitly accounts for negative externalities: greenhouse gas emissions and local emission-induced air pollution. Utilizing an 8-zone ISO- NE test system and a 9-zone PJM test system, we explore grid expansion sensitivities such as impacts of optimizing Points of Interconnection (POIs) versus fixed POIs, negative externalities, and consideration of extreme operational scenarios resulting from offshore wind integration. Our results indicate that accounting for negative externalities necessitates greater upfront investment in clean generation and storage (balanced by lower expected operational costs). Optimizing POIs could significantly reshape offshore topology or POIs, and lower total cost. Finally, ac- counting for extreme operational scenarios typically results in greater operational costs and sometimes may alter onshore line investment. Index Terms Offshore wind integration, transmission expan- sion, externalities, resiliency. NOMENCLATURE Indices and Sets y Y Years over the planning horizon. e E Representative days or scenarios. h H Hours on a representative day. s S Nodes or zones. S1 S0Onshore Offshore nodes. i G Generators. GD GIDispatchable Intermittent (non-dispatchable) gen- erators. GN GENew Existing generators. k K Generation technology types. l L Transmission lines. LAC LDCAC DC transmission lines. S. Khanal and Z. Liang are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA (e-mail: skhanal8 jhu.edu, zliang31 jhu.edu) Y . Dvorkin is with the Departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering Department and Civil and Systems Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA (e-mail: ydvorki1 jhu.edu) C. Graf and B. Unel are with the Institute for Policy Integrity, New York University School of Law, New York, NY 10012 USA (e-mail: christoph.graf nyu.edu, burcin.unel nyu.edu) The authors thank Anita and Josh Bekenstein for their support of this work. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions expressed here are those of the individual authors. ( Corresponding author : S. Khanal) Manuscript received November 17, 2023; revised March 1, 2024; accepted 2 April 2024.LN LENew Existing transmission lines. L1 L0Onshore Offshore transmission lines. f(l) t(l) Indices of sending receiving nodes line l. c C Line types. b BdFlexible demand block. x X Externalities. j J Regions for policy constraints. Parameters ωECAggregate weighting parameter of discounted monetized externality costs. N( )Useful life of asset ( )in years. r Discount rate. GCk Cost per unit capacity of a generation technology typek. LCc Cost per unit capacity-length of capacity of a transmission line of type c. SCpCost per unit power capacity of energy storage. SCeCost per unit energy capacity of battery storage. τ Number of days in a year. ωe Weight of representative days. RPS j Renewable Portfolio Standard in region j PEN Policy mandate non-compliance penalty. PEN Under-generation penalty. PEN Over-generation penalty. FCi Fixed annual operational cost per unit capacity of generator i. VCi Variable operations cost of generator i. WPb Willingness to pay for demand block b. CEi,x Damage costs caused by externality xper unit energy production by generator i. Pg i Pg i Minimum Maximum power limits of generator i. RRi Ramp rate of generator i. h Temporal resolution of model. δh Duration (fraction of h) within which reserves should be supplied. Mi,s,k Mapping of generator i, of type k, to node s. Mi,s Mapping generator ito node s. Ml,s Mapping line lto node s. Ml,c Mapping line lto type c. Mj,s Mapping region jto node s. M0 s,y Mapping offshore node sto online year y. ϕ Fraction of flexible load relative to the total load. α Acceptable fraction of renewable curtailment out of total renewable generation. Dy,s,e,h Forecasted load in year y, at node s, on repre- sentative day e, during hour h. ηs,ch ηs,disCharging Discharging efficiency of energy stor- age resources.arXiv:2311.09563v3 eess.SY 21 Apr 2024 2 DoDsAllowable depth of discharge of energy storage resources. κsAnnual degradation factor of energy storage. HsEnergy storage duration. Fl,c Flow limit (capacity) of transmission line lof typec. Bl Susceptance of line l. M Large positive number. R y,s,e,h Operating reserve requirement in year y, at node s, on representative day e, during hour h. Binary variables il l,c,y Investment (or construction start) of line l, of type cin year y. zl l,c,y Availability of line l, of type cin year y. Continuous variables OC( ) y Discounted annual operational cost of asset ( )in yeary. IC( ) y Discounted annual investment cost of asset ( )in yeary. ECy Discounted annual damage costs caused by ex- ternalities in year y. Pg y,s,kNew generation capacity in year yatsof type k. pg y,i,e,hTotal generation of generator iin year y, on representative day e, during hour h. ps,ch dis y,s,e,hCharging discharging power of energy storage resources at sin year y, on representative day e, during hour h. rg y,i,e,hReserve provided by generator iin year y, on representative day e, during hour h. rs y,s,e,h Reserve provided by energy storage in year y, at node s, on representative day e, during hour h. ψ y,s,e,hRenewable energy curtailment in year y, at node s, on representative day e, during hour h. ψ y,s,e,hUnserved load in year y, at node s, on represen- tative day e, during hour h. dy,s,e,h Flexible demand in year y, at node s, on repre- sentative day e, during hour h(free variable). ρ y,j Policy target noncompliance in year yin region j. fy,l,e,h Power flow through line lin year y, on represen- tative day e, during hour h. θy,s,e,h V
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	Inferring the eﬀect of interventions on COVID-19 transmission networks Simon Syga1, Diana David-Rus2, Yannik Sch alte3,4, Michael Meyer-Hermann5,6, Haralampos Hatzikirou1,7, Andreas Deutsch1, 1Center for Information Services and High Performance Computing, Technische Universit at Dresden, N othnitzer Straße 46, 01062 Dresden, Germany 2Bavarian Health and Food Safety State Authority (LGL) Research division, Veterin arstraße 2, 85764, Oberschleißheim, Germany 3Institute of Computational Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum M unchen German Research Center for Environmental Health, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany 4Center for Mathematics, Technische Universit at M unchen, 85748 Garching, Germany 5Department of Systems Immunology and Braunschweig Integrated Centre of Systems Biology (BRICS), Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig, Germany 6Institute for Biochemistry, Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Technische Universit at Braunschweig, Braunschweig, Germany 7Mathematics Department, Khalifa University, P.O. Box 127788, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates andreas.deutsch tu-dresden.de Abstract Countries around the world implement nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Design of eﬃcient NPIs requires identiﬁcation of the structure of the disease transmission network. We here identify the key parameters of the COVID-19 transmission network for time periods before, during, and after the application of strict NPIs for the ﬁrst wave of COVID-19 infections in Germany combining Bayesian parameter inference with an agent-based epidemiological model. We assume a Watts-Strogatz small-world network which allows to distinguish contacts within clustered cliques and unclustered, random contacts in the population, which have been shown to be crucial in sustaining the epidemic. In contrast to other works, which use coarse-grained network structures from anonymized data, like cell phone data, we consider the contacts of individual agents explicitly. We show that NPIs drastically reduced random contacts in the transmission network, increased network clustering, and resulted in a change from an exponential to a constant regime of new cases. In this regime, the disease spreads like a wave with a ﬁnite wave speed that depends on the number of contacts in a nonlinear fashion, which we can predict by May 18, 2021 1 18arXiv:2012.03846v2 q-bio.PE 17 May 2021 mean ﬁeld theory. Our analysis indicates that besides the well-known transition between exponential increase and exponential decrease in the number of new cases, NPIs can induce a transition to another, previously unappreciated regime of constant new cases. Introduction The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has dramatic consequences at a global scale. Until herd immunity has been reached through vaccination, countries rely on non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) of varying severity, like canceling big events, closing schools, and shutting down businesses to reduce virus transmission. An important goal of NPI design is to prevent those contacts in the population which contribute the most to disease spread while allowing less dangerous contacts. Data from several countries indicate that the eﬀect of early, less strict NPIs, for example cancellation of large events, had a profound eﬀect on the spread of the disease 1 . Other ﬁndings suggest that only a full lockdown reduced the spread noticeably 2 , although the implementation of the lockdown varied dramatically between individual countries. For example, during the ﬁrst wave, Germany did not implement a full lockdown but enacted contact restrictions and closure of nonessential businesses so that people were still allowed to leave their homes and meet in small groups. In several countries, following the implementations of various NPIs, the curves of cumulative infections left the exponential regime and entered a linear one, corresponding to a constant regime of new infections, and an eﬀective reproduction number around 1, see Fig. 1 a-c. This is remarkable, because these countries are quite heterogeneous regarding their demographics, economic situation and the implemented NPIs. Epidemiological models that assume an underlying random transmission network predict this behavior only for a particularly ﬁne-tuned set of parameters, which contrasts with the robustness of the decline in the reproduction number observed in reality 3 6 . Crucially, this is still true for detailed compartment models that incorporate the eﬀect of test-trace-isolate (TTI) eﬀorts, asmptomatic spreaders, or age-dependent spreading based on contact matrices 7, 8 and for agent-based models that rely on coarse-grained contact networks, for example created from anonymized cell phone data, which assume a well-mixed situation on a mesoscopic scale of hundreds of agents 9, 10 . Thurner et al. suggested that the linear regime of cumulative infections is a consequence of small-world transmission networks with high clustering 11 , see Fig. 1 d-i. A similar model was able to explain the disease dynamics during the SARS outbreak in Hong Kong in 2003 12 . Komarova et. al. discussed the power law behavior of the dynamics of COVID-19 spread in the context of a metapopulation model 13 , while the power law dynamics during the hard lockdown in Chinese provinces could be explained by a compartment model that assumes that the susceptible population was quarantined on a time scale comparable to the infectious period of the disease, so that the epidemic comes to a halt quickly 14 . May 18, 2021 2 18 Identiﬁcation of the underlying transmission network is not only crucial for the design of eﬀective NPIs, but also for assessing other properties of COVID-19 spread, such as the herd immunity threshold 15 . The heterogeneous topology of real social networks is reﬂected by a small average path length between any two nodes (small world property), a high clustering in the network (the probability of two nodes being connected is much larger if they have a neighbor in common) and by a power-law distribution (scale-free property) of the node degree 16, 17 . Network-based epidemiological models allow to consider the eﬀects of heterogeneity with respect to the type and frequency of contacts in the population, i. e. how often people meet and whom, by representing all agents as nodes of a network and the contacts in the population by links between these nodes 18, 19 . For example, the spread of diseases is strengthened on scale-free networks so that the epidemic threshold is reduced 20 22 . Here, we argue that during the period of severe NPIs, like contact restrictions, the most important feature of real transmission networks is their strong
__label__energy	1 1 Abstract The operation and maintenance costs of wind parks make up a major fraction of a park s overall lifetime costs. They also include opportunity costs of lost revenue from avoidable power generation underperformance. We present a machine-learning based decision support method that minimizes these opportunity costs. By analyzing the stream of telemetry sensor data from the turbine operation, estimating highly accurate power reference relations and benchmarking, we can detect performance-related operational faults in a turbine- and site-specific manner. The most accurate power reference model is selected based on combinations of machine learning algorithms and regressor sets. Operating personal can be alerted if a normal operating state boundary is exceeded. We demonstrate the performance fault detection method in a case study for a commercial grid-connected onshore wind turbine. Diagnosing a detected underperformance event, we find that the observed power generation deficiencies coincide with rotor blade misalignment related to low hydraulic pressure of the turbine s blade actuators. Index Terms Fault detection and diagnosis, Gradient boosting, Performance optimization, Power modelling, Wind turbine I. INTRODUCTION HE globally installed wind power capacity reached 591 GW at the end of 2018 and continued growth is expected by at least 55 GW annually until 2023 1 . The operation and maintenance (O M) costs of commercial wind turbines constitute a large fraction of the overall lifecycle costs. They can amount to 30 and more of the lifecycle costs of onshore and offshore wind parks 2 , 3 . As the purchase prices of wind turbines continue to decrease while O M cost remain relatively constant, O M activities are becoming more and more important as a relative cost factor 3 . High reliability and availability and low O M costs are important economic requirements for wind plants in view of the projected strong investment increase in the globally installed wind power capacity. While the weather conditions are the main determinant of the wind turbine power generation, optimal technical conditions are important as well for the cost-effective operation and thus need A. Meyer is associate professor at the School of Engineering of Zurich University of Applied Sciences, 8400 Winterthur, Switzerland. A. Meyer is the corresponding author (e-mail: angela.meyer zhaw.ch, phone: 41 58 934 67 74). to be monitored. A variety of condition monitoring approaches have been proposed for wind turbines, including oil analysis, vibration, acoustics and strain monitoring 4 . More recently several multivariate data mining approaches to condition monitoring have been proposed for detecting performance-related faults and quantifying underperformance in the power generation of wind parks. These approaches make use of turbine telemetry data comprising sensor-based and control variables for estimating power curve models in a parametric or non-parametric manner 5 . Several parametric methods have been proposed, e.g. 6 8 . Among the parametric approaches, reference 6 proposed a monitoring method which calculates a power curve by spline interpolation of mean power values per wind speed bin and then learns upper and lower limits to the power curve and issues an alarm if the limits are exceeded. Being based on discrete bins and parametric interpolation, this method may be prone to provide less accurate estimates than highly flexible machine learning regression models. Moreover, it issues alarms based on single 10-minute average outlier values, which may result in a large number of alarms even in case of brief transient deviations. An underperformance detection in the power generation was proposed in 7 based on power curve modelling with stepwise linear models and Weibull cumulative distribution functions. It is found that such parametric approaches can be limited in their flexibility to capture power relations and to reflect the characteristics of individual turbines and sites. Among the non-parametric approaches, several regression, clustering and dimensionality-reduction based methods have been proposed, e.g. 9 12 . Reference 9 introduced a monitoring method for wind parks that is based on a non-parametric estimation approach and three operational curves: power, rotor speed and pitch angle as a function of the wind speed. The curves were segmented into clusters with a k-means algorithm to enable the detection of outliers based on the Mahalanobis distance from the curves. A comparison to the reference operational curves was performed only indirectly by comparing the skewness and tailedness of the multivariate power, rotor speed and pitch angle distributions. While the statistical moments used, skewness and kurtosis, characterize B. Brodbeck is the founder of the WinJi AG, Am Wasser 55, 8049 Zurich, Switzerland (e-mail: bernhard.brodbeck win-ji.com). This work was partially supported by the Swiss innovation agency Innosuisse Grant 31533.1. Performance Fault Detection in Wind Turbines by Dynamic Reference State Estimation Angela Meyer1 and Bernhard Brodbeck2 1 School of Engineering, Zurich University of Applied Sciences, 8400 Winterthur, Switzerland 2 WinJi AG, Am Wasser 55, 8049 Zurich, Switzerland Corresponding author (angela.meyer zhaw.ch) T 2 2 the overall shape of the multivariate distribution they do not enable a unique identification of the reference distribution. So a highly accurate detection of deviations from the reference distribution may not always be possible with this approach. Moreover, the operation reference relations were not estimated in a turbine or site-specific manner even though said reference relations can exhibit systematic differences across turbines and sites, even for turbines of the same type and in the same wind park. It is still a challenge to accurately estimate the expected power generation and detect power-related operational faults. The more accurately the operational power reference relation can be estimated, the more reliably one can detect power generation underperformance situations and perform diagnosis. An accurate estimation of the wind power relationship permits the operators to quantify the potential power generation and assess the wind power loss and, if needed, decide on appropriate measures with regard to calibration or aerodynamics and control system optimization and maintenance. The goal of this study is to develop a highly accurate machine-learning based decision support method for detecting and quantifying power generation anomalies in wind turbines in an automated turbine- and site-specific manner. To achieve this, we propose a method that consists of estimating
__label__energy	This document is the unedited accepted version The final paper is published on: Renewable Energy, vol. 141 (2019), pages 791 -801 https: doi.org 10.1016 j.renene.2019.04.075 https: www.sciencedirect.com science article pii S0960148119305592 1 Comparative study of different functionalized graphene -nanoplatelet aqueous nanofluids for solar energy applications Javier P. Vallejo1, Luca Mercatelli2, Maria Raffaella Martina2, Daniele Di Rosa2,3, Aldo Dell Oro4, Luis Lugo1, Elisa Sani2 1Departamento de Física Aplicada, Facultade de Ciencias, Universidade de Vigo, E -36310 Vigo, Spain 2CNR -INO National Institute of Optics, Largo E. Fermi, 6, I -50125 Firenze, Italy 3University of Pisa, Department of Energy, Systems, Territory and Constructions Engineering (D.E.S.T.eC.), Largo L. Lazzarino, I-56122 Pisa, Italy 4INAF, Osservatorio Astrofisico di Arcetri, Largo E . Fermi 5, I-50125 Firenze, Italy corresponding author: elisa.sani ino.cnr.it Abstract The optical properties of nanofluids are peculiar and interesting for a variety of applications. Among them, the high light extinction coefficient of nanofluids can be useful in l inear parabolic concentrating solar systems, while the ir properties under high light irradiation intensities can be exploited for direct solar steam generation. The optical characterization of colloids , including the study of non-linear optical properties , is thus a needed step to design the use of such novel materials for solar energy exploitation . In this work, we analysed two different types of nanofluids, consisting of polycarboxylate chemically modified graphene nanoplatelets (P-GnP) and sulfonic acid - functionalized graphene nanoplatelets (S-GnP) dispersed in water , at three concentrations from 0.005 wt to 0.05 wt . Moderately stable nanofluids were achieved with favourable light extinction properties, as well as a non-linear optical behaviour under high input solar intensities. Keywords: direct absorption solar collectors ; concentrating solar power ; solar steam generation; nanofluids ; graphene nanoplatelets ; optical properties 1. Introduction Nanofluids (i.e. suspensions of nanometer -sized solids in a base fluid) are receiving a huge development in last years and are taken in to account for a large variety of applications. Among the fundamental characteristics of nanofluids, the knowledge of optical properties is needed for all applications r equiring the interaction of the nanomaterial itself with optical radiation. This field results, in fact, really huge: from nano biology nanomedicine 1-4 to different types of optical sensors 4-7 , from the development of innovative light sources and optical components 3, 8 to nanomotors 9, 10 , just to mention few of them. Energy is one of the most appealing application fields of nanofluids, and, in particular, dealing with optical propert ies, the solar energy exploitation. 11, 12 . This document is the unedited accepted version The final paper is published on: Renewable Energy, vol. 141 (2019), pages 791 -801 https: doi.org 10.1016 j.renene.2019.04.075 https: www.sciencedirect.com science article pii S0960148119305592 2 As confirmed by the impressive growth of studies on this topic 13-16 , dark nanofluids are considered promising for the direct -absorption solar collector (DASC) scheme . DASCs offer several advantages with respect to conventional surface -absorber architecture s, because volumetric sunlight absor ption and heat exchange function s are carried out by the same element, namely the dark fluid , arising in an optimized thermal transfer and in reduced thermal re -radiation losses. The DASC system was originally proposed by Minardi and Chuang 17 in the mid-1970s to potentially enhance the system efficiency by absorbing the energy with in the fluid volume 18 . In particular, this was typically done using India Ink, a black fluid composed by a suspension of micron -sized ca rbonaceous particles prone to sedimentation and clogging of the pumps 13 . Moreover, black inks usually contain organic and inorganic chromophores that show serious drawbacks because of their light -induced and thermal degradation at the high operating tem peratures. 18, 19 . Nanoparticles overcome these critical issues and potentially increase the efficiency of DASC s. A large variety of nanoparticles and base fluids has been investigated in the literature. Among them , the family of carbon -based nanostructures has emerged as particularly promising. From carbon black 20 to graphite 21 , as well as single, multi -wall and functionalized nanotubes 22-24 , carbon nanohorns 20, 25-27 , many nanofluids containing carbon nanoparticles have been studi ed for solar energy applications. Graphene is one of most intriguing carbon allotropes 28, 29 . Graphene nanoplatelets or nanosheets consist of small flakes of several -layer staked graphene that partially inherit the good properties of graphene with much lower production costs. Graphene nanoparticles are naturally hydrophobic . They can be stably s uspended in water after chemical modifications of their surface, e.g. by oxidation or by different types of functionalization 30, 31 A second promising field of application of nanofluids in renewable energies is direct solar steam generation. Steam produ ction is of crucial importance for many applications including electricity generation, energy storage, biomass processing, water desalination and sterilization 32-35 . Green and renewable steam production by solar energy is thus an important topic of rese arch 36 , as an example to bring technologies essential for life in off -grid areas and resource -poor locations. Typical solar steam production systems are currently based on solar trough or solar tower architectures with a surface or cavity solar absorber 37-39 . They work heating a bulk fluid to its boiling temperature under high optical concentration. The steam generation efficiency is strongly connected to the surface temperature and thermal radiation properties of the absorber. However , as bulk steam production needs high temperatures, these conventional systems also suffer from high heat losses and low efficiency. To overcome this drawback, a possibility is looking for solutions able to produce steam without requiring heating the whole liquid volume to the boiling point. Different authors reported on the efficient solar steam generation by different nanoparticles, such as gold 40-42 , silicon 43 and carbon nanostructures 44, 45 . For the solar steam production, the nanofluid must be subjected to intense light irradiation , as i t happen s under high solar concentration regimes . It is important to notice that when materials
__label__energy	This is the author accepted manuscript (AAM) of the following published article: DOI https: doi.org 10.1088 1748-9326 ad27b9 arXiv DOI https: doi.org 10.48550 arXiv.2307.08909 author(s)Laurens P. Stoop, Karin van der Wiel, William Zappa, Arno Haverkamp, Ad J. Feelders, Machteld van den Broek titleThe Climatological Renewable Energy Deviation Index (credi ) publication date February 2024 journal Enviromental Research Lettes volume 19 page numbers 034021 This AAM version corresponds to the author s final version of the article, as ac- cepted by the journal. However, it has not been copy-edited or formatted by the journal. This AAM is deposited under a Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike (CC- BY-SA) license.arXiv:2307.08909v3 physics.ao-ph 28 Feb 2024 The Climatological Renewable Energy Deviation Index ( credi ) Laurens P. Stoop ,1,2,3, Karin van der Wiel ,4William Zappa ,3Arno Haverkamp ,3Ad J. Feelders ,1Machteld van den Broek5 1Information and Computing Science, Utrecht University, the Netherlands 2Copernicus Institute of Sustainable Development, Utrecht University, the Netherlands 3TenneT TSO B.V., Arnhem, the Netherlands 4Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI), the Netherlands 5Delft University of Technology, Faculty Technology, Policy, and Management, the Netherlands Corresponding Author: laurens.stoop tennet.eu Abstract We propose an index to quantify and analyse the impact of climatological variabil- ity on the energy system at different timescales. We define the Climatological Re- newable Energy Deviation Index ( credi ) as the cumulative anomaly of a renewable resource with respect to its climate over a specific time period of interest. For this we introduce the smooth, yet physical, hourly rolling window climatology that captures the expected hourly to yearly behaviour of renewable resources. We analyse the pre- sented index at decadal, annual and (sub-)seasonal timescales for a sample region and discuss scientific and practical implications. credi is meant as an analytical tool for researchers and stakeholders to help them quantify, understand, and explain, the impact of energy-meteorological variability on future energy system. Improved understanding translates to better assessments of how renewable resources, and the associated risks for energy security, may fare in cur- rent and future climatological settings. The practical use of the index is in resource planning. For example transmission system operators may be able to adjust short- term planning to reduce adequacy issues before they occur or combine the index with storyline event selection for improved assessments of climate change related risks. Keywords : Resource droughts, Resource Adequacy, Renewable Energy Drought, Dunk- elflaute, Wind Drought 1 INTRODUCTION The energy system is changing. This is due to the increased deployment of renew- able energy generators, like wind turbines and solar panels; changes in electricity de- mand, from increased use of heat pumps and electric vehicles; and climatic changes influencing the weather dependent parts of the system. It is crucial to understand the full dynamics of the (future) energy system, both for policy making and energy security reasons1. Knowing the impact of and link between the energy system and weather-related variability on daily to inter-annual and decadal timescales is vital for robust design and planning of future energy systems1 3. Meteorological variability leads to tempo- ral variability. Not only in renewable energy production, but also in energy demand, changing the way energy systems have to be operated and controlled1. Energy system models are vital to capture the impact of this variability 4 . How- ever, their complexity results in high computational burdens that grows exponen- tially with the simulation period 1, 5 8 . Incorporating large climate datasets that 2 DEFINITION OF THE CLIMATIC CHARACTERISATION AND INDEX 2 capture energy-meteorological variability in operational hourly energy system mod- els is thus, as of yet, unfeasible 1, 7, 9 . Even so, understanding the scale of this vari- ability, can aid system operators in their task to ensure both short- and long-term energy security 1, 7, 10 . Therefore, alternative approaches are needed to assess energy-meteorological variability 1, 11 . While a number of methods exists to model and or select challenging high impact events using basic statistical principles e.g. 10, 12 18 , we aim to define a physics based and intuitive to understand metric to quantify energy-meteorological variability across timescales. In developing this metric, we were inspired by the hydrological sciences. For drought monitoring, a number of indices have proven useful for both scientific assessment and operational use. These drought indices, such as the Climatological Water Bal- ance CWB; 19, 20 , the Standardised Precipitation Index SPI; 21 , and the Stan- dardised Precipitation-Evapotranspiration Index SPEI; 22 ), are based on precipita- tion deficits (anomaly of precipitation, or anomaly of the difference between potential evapotranspiration and precipitation) and are used to assess the temporal develop- ment of dry or wet periods. Furthermore, they have been used to assess the influ- ence of inter-annual to multi-decadal variability, and of climate change on the tem- poral variability of hydrological drought e.g. 23 26 . As Allen Otero 18 showed, some aspects of these indices and their use in assessing hydrological variability can be transferred to the energy-meteorological domain. However, where Allen Otero 18 developed direct analogues of the SPI and SPEI metrics using probabilistic de- scriptions, we took inspiration from aspects of these metrics, their use in operational applications, and combined this with the need for physically grounded storylines in energy system operation. We define the Climatological Renewable Energy Deviation Index ( credi ) as the cu- mulative anomaly of a renewable resource with respect to its climate over a specific time period of interest (Figure 1). Given this definition, this study addresses the fol- lowing considerations: (a) how do you define the climatic behaviour of a highly vari- able renewable resource, like wind or solar? and (b) how do you analyse the credi score at different timescales; like (sub-)seasonal, annual, or multi-decadal? The paper is structured as follows. In Section 2, we define the hourly rolling win- dow climate and the index. In Section 3, we indicate the data used. In Section 4, we analyse the index at different timescales and discuss the best starting point. In the Section 5 we discuss our definition
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	Open source modelling of scenarios for a 100 renewable energy system in Barbados incorporating shore-to-ship power and electric vehicles Andr e Harewooda, Franziska Dettnera, , Simon Hilperta aDepartment of Energy and Environmental Management, Europa-Universit at Flensburg, Auf dem Campus 1, 24943 Flensburg Abstract The high dependence on imported fuels and the potential for both climate change mitigation and economic diversi cation make Barbados energy system particularly interesting for detailed transformation analysis. An open source energy system model is presented here for the analysis of a future Barbadian energy system. The model was applied in a scenario analysis, using a green eld approach, to investigate cost-optimal and 100 renewable energy system con g- urations. Within the scenarios, the electri cation of private passenger vehicles and cruise ships through shore-to-ship power supply was modelled to assess its impact on the energy system and the necessary investment in storage. Results show that for most scenarios of a system in 2030, a renewable energy share of over 80 is achieved in cost-optimal cases, even with a growing demand. The system s levelised costs of electricity range from 0.17 to 0.36 BBD kWh in the cost-optimal scenarios and increase only moderately for 100 renewable sys- tems. Under the reasonable assumption of decreasing photovoltaic investment costs, system costs of a 100 system may be lower than the current costs. The results show that pumped hydro-storage is a no-regret option for the Barba- dian power system design. Overall, the results highlight the great potential of Corresponding author Email addresses: andre-gr.harewood studierende.uni-flensburg.de (Andr e Harewood), franziska.dettner uni-flensburg.de (Franziska Dettner, simon.hilpert uni-flensburg.de (Simon Hilpert) Preprint submitted to Elsevier February 8, 2022arXiv:2108.10083v3 physics.soc-ph 7 Feb 2022 renewable energy as well as the technical and economic feasibility of a 100 renewable energy system for Barbados. Keywords: energy transition, 100 renewable systems, SIDS, transport electri cation, open source energy modelling, shore-to-ship power 1. Introduction Background Energy is key for the well-being and development of all societies. Especially Small Island Developing States (SIDS) are facing numerous social, economic and environmental challenges when it comes to energy. Smaller market size in com- parison to larger developed nation counterparts makes diversifying conventional power generation almost impossible, which favours large utility monopolies. In addition, most SIDS lack natural fossil resources and have di culty diversifying economically (UNDP, 2018). Also, SIDS, including Barbados, are playing an increasingly important role pushing for climate action. With a dependence of more than 95 on fossil fuel imports, Barbados faces economic vulnerabilities that translate into high electricity prices (Henderson, 2013). At the same time, Barbados is the rst island in the English-speaking Caribbean to commit to using 100 renewable energy (Henry et al., 2015). The heavy reliance on fuel imports for energy generation and transportation has a ected and is a ecting the nation s economic growth and social development. Barbados has favourable wind and solar resources to aim for a high share of renewable energy sources in the electricity sector as well as the potential to electrify other relevant fossil fuel based sectors. Most energy system modelling at the international level and in the SIDS is done with closed black-box energy system models (ESMs). Typically, these are pre-set models and the source code is unavailable for third party review (Pfen- ninger Sta ell, 2016; Hilpert et al., 2018). This makes the analysis of the raw data and the methods used impossible for external analysis, especially for policy planning agencies and researchers. However, under the principles of the Open Energy Modelling (openmod) initiative, the data,code and documenta- 2 tion for the model used in this analysis is shared publicly. Open science should be the standard to promote transparency in scienti c investigations. Increased openness is also signi cant to foster open and frank dialogue between SID state governments and the lending agencies that often require energy modelling inves- tigations as a prerequisite for policy based loans (Atteridge Savvidou, 2019). Whereas only a few studies address the possibility of a 100 RES for Bar- bados, none utilise an open source energy system model to create transparent and reproducible results. This study lls the above mentioned research gap by developing an open energy system model based on the Open Energy Modelling Framework (oemof) (Hilpert et al., 2018) for Barbados. This allows to deter- mine, which share of renewable energies is technically and economically feasible in the future electricity system of Barbados in 2030, as well as modelling not yet electri ed sectors, such as passenger transport and the cruise tourism sec- tor. Applying a green eld approach to energy system modelling, which removes all boundary conditions by today s systems to achieve the best overall system performance (Geidl et al., 2006), the present analysis is an indispensable pre- requisite for future, detailed power system planning. For an in depth analysis and a more profound understanding of the Barba- dian energy system, including currently installed capacities, demand analysis, renewable energy potentials and political framework conditions please consult the supplementary material. The most relevant information is summarised be- low. Weather conditions in Barbados are promising for a cost e cient RES. The dynamic of average wind and solar daily capacity factors is shown in Figure C.11 based on selected weather years. The relevance of bioenergy for a 100 RES in Barbados to complement the wind and solar potential has been noted in Espinasa et al. (2016); GOB (2019) and IRENA (2016), among others. Bagasse as a residue from the sugar production process can be used for the generation of bio-energy Marshall (2019). As an island system aiming for a 100 renewable energy supply, it is natural to include sectors traditionally powered by fossil fuels in the modelling. The passenger transport sector as well as the cruise sector as an important tourism 3 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 Day of Year0.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8Capacity FactorType wind solarFigure 1: Average wind and solar daily capacity factor and 95 con dence interval of four years (2002, 2004, 2010, 2014) based on Renewables.Ninja (Pfenninger Sta ell, 2016) data for
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Optimizing Airborne Wind Energy with Reinforcement Learning N. Orzan,1, 2C. Leone,1, 3A. Mazzolini,1, 4J. Oyero,1, 5and A. Celani1 1The Abdus Salam International Center for Theoretical Physics ICTP, Trieste 34151, Italy 2University of Groningen, 9700 AB Groningen, the Netherlands 3SISSA International School for Advanced Studies, Trieste I-34136, Italy 4Laboratoire de physique de l Ecole normale sup erieure (PSL University), CNRS, Sorbonne Universit e, and Universit e de Paris, 75005 Paris, France 5Nonlinear Physical Chemistry Unit Service de Chimie Physique et Biologie Th eorique Universit e Libre de Bruxelles CP 231 - Campus Plaine, 1050 Brussels, Belgium Airborne Wind Energy is a lightweight technology that allows power extraction from the wind using airborne devices such as kites and gliders, where the airfoil orientation can be dynamically controlled in order to maximize performance. The dynamical complexity of turbulent aerodynamics makes this optimization problem unapproachable by conventional methods such as classical control theory, which rely on accurate and tractable analytical models of the dynamical system at hand. Here we propose to attack this problem through Reinforcement Learning, a technique that by repeated trial-and-error interactions with the environment learns to associate observations with pro table actions without requiring prior knowledge of the system. We show that in a simulated environment Reinforcement Learning nds an e cient way to control a kite so that it can tow a vehicle for long distances. The algorithm we use is based on a small set of intuitive observations and its physically transparent interpretation allows to describe the approximately optimal strategy as a simple list of manoeuvring instructions. I. INTRODUCTION Airborne wind energy (AWE) is a technology aiming to obtain usable power by means of ying devices 1 which has the potential of replacing the traditional tow- ered wind turbine architecture 2 . Airborne wind en- ergy systems usually consist in an airfoil providing trac- tion power - generally a kite or a glider - which is either connected by a tether to a ground station that converts power into electricity by a turbine, or used to tow a ve- hicle 3, 4 . There are many advantages of AWE over standard wind turbines: reduced costs for construction; lower en- vironmental impact; saving in building materials; ease in displacing the device 5, 6 . Here we focus on one distin- guishing feature of AWE that is the possibility of adapt- ing to the rapid and local changes in wind conditions by controlling the orientation of the kite. This allows to maintain the kite airborne and e ective under varying wind and weather conditions 7 . The task of nding the best way of manoeuvring the kite in order to maximise power production has been previously addressed by means of optimal control theory 8 10 , using methods from Non-linear Model Predictive Control 11 . These are essentially planning algorithms that crucially rely on a dynamical model in order to pre- dict the future evolution of the system. For AWE this re- quirement translates in nding an accurate model of both the dynamics of the kite and of the turbulent wind. Such model would involve a huge number of dynamical de- grees of freedom and the resulting optimization problem would then become computationally intractable. More- over, even assuming that the previous di culties could be overcome, turbulence is famously characterized by its un- predictability, undercutting the power of predictive con-trol. To bypass these di culties, the e ect of wind tur- bulence is often ignored or too crudely approximated, for instance by adding small uncorrelated uctuations 5, 12, 13 . The control strategies so obtained may how- ever turn out to be severely suboptimal when put to the test in a realistic turbulent environment. Here, we propose to use Reinforcement Learning (RL) to nd e ective control strategies for AWE in a realis- tic turbulent environment. The core idea of RL consists in learning how to control a system in order to achieve a long-term goal without relying on detailed a priori knowledge of its dynamics and therefore avoiding the shortcomings of predictive control 14 . By repeatedly interacting with the environment that surrounds it, the controller learns by trial and error to associate valuable actions to speci c contexts 15 . RL has been shown to be competitive with Model Predictive Control even in situa- tions where an accurate model of the system is available 16 . The ability of RL in nding e ective control strate- gies in dynamic and unpredictable environment such as the turbulent atmosphere has been recently showcased in complex tasks such as thermal soaring and balloon nav- igation 17, 18 . In this article we provide a proof of concept that RL can be successfully used for AWE. We consider a simu- lated environment that simulates the dynamics of a ship towed by a kite that ies in the turbulent atmospheric boundary layer. A major di culty of this task is to nd appropriate controllers that sense and exploit the vari- able wind strength and at the same time avert disastrous crashes. We nd that a compact RL algorithm based on a small set of physically intuitive observations and con- trols is able to nd e ective strategies to tow the vehicle for long distances, e ciently converting the energy of the turbulent wind into directed motion.arXiv:2203.14271v1 physics.flu-dyn 27 Mar 2022 2 FIG. 1. The simulated environment for AWE. a) Sketch of the kite-ship system. b) Snapshot of a vertical cross-section of the horizontal wind velocity in the turbulent ow. c) The attack angle is the angle between the longitudinal axis of the kite and the relative velocity; its control allows the kite to dive and rise. d) The bank angle changes the direction of the lift force and its control makes the airfoil turn left and right. II. THE SIMULATED ENVIRONMENT In this section we describe the simulated environment for AWE production. A. Kite and vehicle dynamics We consider the system composed by a kite connected to a vehicle (e.g. a ship) through an
__label__energy	Weather-Driven Priority Charging for Battery Storage Systems in Hybrid Renewable Energy Grids Dhrumil Bhatt Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Academy of Higher Education Manipal, India dhrumil.bhatt gmail.comSiddharth Penumatsa Department of Electronics and Communications Engineering Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Academy of Higher Education Manipal, India psiddharthv06 gmail.comNirbhay Singhal Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Academy of Higher Education Manipal, India nirbhaysinghal09 gmail.com Corresponding Author Abstract The integration of renewable energy into the power grid is often hindered by its fragmented infrastructure, leading to inefficient utilization due to the variability of energy production and its reliance on weather conditions. Battery storage systems, while essential for stabilizing energy supply, face challenges like suboptimal energy distribution, accelerating battery degrada- tion, and reducing operational efficiency. This paper presents a novel solution to these challenges by developing a large- scale, interconnected renewable energy network that optimizes energy storage and distribution. The proposed system includes strategically placed battery storage facilities that stabilize energy production by compensating for fluctuations in renewable output. A priority charging algorithm, informed by real-time weather forecasting and load monitoring, ensures that the most suitable battery systems are charged under varying conditions. Within each storage facility, a secondary priority charging algorithm minimizes battery degradation by ranking batteries based on critical parameters such as state of health (SoH) and state of charge (SoC) and deciding which to charge. This comprehensive approach enhances the efficiency and longevity of battery storage systems, offering a more reliable and resilient renewable energy infrastructure. 1 Index Terms Renewable energy, Priority charging, Battery storage systems, Weather forecasting, Load monitoring, Hybrid energy systems, Grid stability, Energy optimization, Smart grid management I. I NTRODUCTION As global fossil fuel reserves continue to diminish and en- ergy demands increase, integrating renewable energy sources has become critical in addressing the challenges posed by climate change. During the transitional phase from fossil fuel dependency to fully renewable grids, we face significant challenges, mainly when renewable energy production is not at its peak. Solar power generation is subject to diurnal cycles and weather conditions, leading to fluctuating output throughout the day. For instance, solar irradiance can vary between 0 and 1,000 W m² depending on cloud cover and geographic location. On a clear day, solar panels can operate near their peak capacity, but during cloudy conditions, the output can 1 Authors contributed equally to this work.decrease by as much as 50-90 depending on cloud density 1 . This variability results in supply-demand mismatches and can strain grid management systems. Wind power similarly faces significant challenges due to the unpredictable nature of wind speeds. Wind turbines are typically designed to operate within a specific range of wind speeds, with cut-in speeds (the minimum wind speed needed to generate electricity) around 3 to 4 m s and cut-out speeds (the maximum safe operating speed) around 25 m s. Outside this range, turbines either produce no power or must be shut down to prevent damage. The variability of wind speeds limits generation capacity and can lead to rapid changes in power output, destabilizing grid systems. These fluctuations make it challenging to ensure a consistent supply of electricity from wind power. 3 Overcoming fluctuations in energy for the grid associated with renewable energy integration requires a strategic push towards hybrid energy systems, which mitigate reliance on any singular renewable source. Combining several renewable sources to work together in different locations or types of generation will significantly improve the grid s stability. The work proposes an infrastructure consisting of sizeable modular battery storage systems, each composed of multiple battery units, and each unit is managed by state-of-the-art battery management systems (BMS) for its internal cells. These systems will ensure optimal efficiency at the individual cell level, allowing future improvements to focus on increasing overall system efficiency. These systems will be placed across the region uniformly rather than next to the energy sources to act as a common energy source. Traditional infrastructure often places energy storage close to the generation source (e.g., wind farms or solar arrays). The proposed approach of distributing storage uniformly across regions helps reduce the risk of localized energy shortages and allows for better balancing of supply and demand across larger areas. A priority charging algorithm will be implemented for these storage systems, utilizing their state of charge levels in conjunction with weather forecasting for predicted power output and load monitoring for predicted power usage. A secondary priority-based charging algorithm will bearXiv:2501.06104v2 eess.SY 19 Feb 2025 developed to optimize energy distribution among individual battery units. This algorithm will leverage each unit s state of charge (SoC) and state of health (SoH) values, assigning a rank based on their respective parameters. Current energy storage systems often treat batteries uniformly, accelerating degradation and necessitating more frequent replacements. In contrast, the proposed algorithm aims to mitigate wear on batteries in poorer conditions by prioritizing healthier units, thereby enhancing their usage and extending the overall lifespan of the battery system. II. L ITERATURE REVIEW A. Integrated Systems: Combining Weather and Load Fore- casting Weather forecasting has been critical for renewable energy grid management, particularly solar and wind power fore- casting. Accurate weather predictions allow for anticipating periods of high renewable energy production (e.g., sunny or windy conditions) and can inform the timing of battery charging. Many studies have investigated different forecasting techniques statistical, machine learning, and hybrid meth- ods to improve the accuracy of renewable energy generation predictions 4 6 . However, there is a lack of research integrating exact weather forecasting models directly with battery storage control algorithms. Most work focuses on improving forecast accuracy, with limited attention to how these forecasts can be leveraged in real-time decision-making for battery management systems. Effective battery management for grid stability also requires accurate load forecasting. Load forecasting models predict future electricity consumption based on historical data and ex- ternal factors, such as time of day, temperature, and economic activity. This enables utilities to optimize battery discharge during peak demand periods. While advances in
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	Thermal Energy Grid Storage Using Multijunction Photovoltaics Caleb Amy1, Hamid Reza Seyf2, Myles A. Steiner3, Daniel J. Friedman3, Asegun Henry1,2 1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge MA, 02139, USA 2George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering, Georgia Institute of T echnology, Atlanta GA, 30332, USA 3National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden CO, 80401, USA Abstract As the cost of renewable energy falls below fossil fuels, the most important challenge to enable widespread sustainable power generation has become making renewables dispatchable. Low cost energy storage can provide this dispatchability , but there is no clear technology that can meet the need. Pumped hydroelectric and com pressed air storage have low costs, but they are geographically constrained. Similarly, lithium -ion batteries are becoming ubiquitous, but even their lower bounding asymptote cost is too high to enable cost -competitive dispatchable renewables. Here, we introduce a concept based on thermal energy grid storage (TEGS) using a multijunction photovoltaic heat engine (MPV) with promising initial experimental results that could meet the low cost required to enable cost competitive dispatchable renewables. The app roach exploits an important tradeoff between the accession of an extremely low cost per unit energy stored, by storing heat instead of electricity directly, while paying the penalty of a lower round trip efficiency. To understand why this tradeoff is advan tageous, we first introduce a framework for evaluat ing storage technologies that treats round trip efficiency (RTE) as a variable, in addition to cost per unit energy stored (CPE) and cost per unit power (CPP). It is from this perspective that the TEGS -MPV concept offers a compelling economic proposition. Introduction In the last decade the cost of electricity derived from renewables i.e., solar photovoltaics (PV) and wind, has fallen dramatically1,2 making renewables cheaper or cost competitive with fossil derived electricity in ideal locations. This is a remarkable achievement, but it is based purely on an assessment of the levelized cost per unit energy (LCOE) (i.e., the total cos t divided by the lifetime electrical energy output, kWh -e). Although this is an important quantity, it does not account for the fact that renewable electricity is not necessarily provided when desired, since it is inherently tied to the weather . Thus, dispatchability remains a key necessity provided by existing fossil -based technologies. Consequently, a s Denholm3,4 and others5-7 have shown , renewable penetration onto the g rid will be limited to 10 -15 without grid level storage . Thus , the storage problem i.e., how to store buffer energy at the grid scale cheaply , has emerged as one of the most important technological barriers to decarbonization of the grid and mitigatin g climate change . Currently the cheapest grid storage technology is pumped hydroelectric (PH), which has a high roundtrip efficiency (RTE) 80 -90 , as well as a low cost per unit energy (CPE) 75 kWh - e and low cost per unit power (CPP) 1 W -e8. The issue with PH, and a lso compressed air energy storage (CAES), however, is that it is geographically limited and, in the case of P H, the prime locations have already been exploited7,9-11. Electrochemical batteries , on the other hand, have promising new chemistries7,12, but it is unclear if any will di splace Li -ion batteries whose prices continue to drop from 300 -400 kWh -e down to a predicted asymptote 150 kWh -e7. There is significant concern nonetheless, that even this lower asymptote for Li -ion is still not cheap enough to enable the eventual 100 penetra tion of renewables needed to truly mitigate climate change. In this respect, alternative solutions to the storage problem are needed, and it is likely that costs closer to 50 kWh -e and below13,14 will be needed to eventually realize 100 penetration and full abatement of CO 2 emissions from the stationary power sector . This low cost requirement arises from the fact that a levelized cost of storage (LCOS) below the 0.06 kWh average electricity price15 and 10 or more hours16 of storage are needed to reliably and cost -effectively supply the grid. In thinking about lower cost storage, one class of technologies that has not received much attention is thermal energy storage (TES). This is because t he final form of energy needed is electricity, necessitating the conversion of heat back to electricity, which tends to occur at low efficiency ( 35 -40 ) for conventional turbine -based heat engines. It is because of this low efficiency, that the idea of ta king electricity off the grid, converting it to heat e.g., via joule heating, storing it and then converting it back to electricity has seem ed nonsensical. However, even though the low efficiency is off -putting, when one considers the entire economic propo sition, it can actually still prove quite attractive especially when new embodiments that achieve somewhat higher RTEs, or very low CPEs17 and or CPPs are considered. Several embodiments18,19 have been proposed and are under development involv ing the conversi on of electricity to heat, which is then stored and later converted back on demand , such that we have generally termed this class of technologies thermal energy grid storage (TEGS) herein . What these various incarnations share is the storage of heat, which is exploited to be as inexpensive as possible , and it should be noted here that storing heat can be an order of magnitude cheaper than electrochemical batteries. The simplest embodiment that is arguably closest to commercialization , is to use molten salt as is currently done in concentrated solar power (CSP) plants20, except that one wo uld need to replace the solar heat input with joule he ating . With this approach, one can today achieve a CPE 100 k Wh-e21, but t he problem would be the low RTE ( 35-40 ) . A more clever approach introduced by Laughlin18 involves the usage of a heat pump instead of jo ule heating, which can in theory almost double the RTE to 72
__label__energy	International Journal of Energy Science and Engineering Vol. 3, No. 5, 2017, pp. 44-47 http: www.aiscience.org journal ijese ISSN: 2381 -7267 (Print); ISSN: 2381 -7275 (Online) The Arctic Electric Power Stations Are the Decision of Energy, Environmental and Climate Problems. B.M.Ovchinnikov1 , Yu.B.Ovchinnikov2, V.V.Parusov1 1Institute for Nuclear Research , Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia 2National Physical Laboratory, Hampton Road, Teddington, Middlesex, UK Corresponding a uthor: ovchin inr.ru Abstract In this paper we propose the decision of energy, environmental and climate problems o f the society wit h the help of a rctic electric power stations. Such stations can provide the electricity t o the whole of Europe and Asian, this can save from dependence on oil and gas. This method of producing electricity is completely ecologically safe. The stations are decision of the energy problem in the case of nuclear winter . The paper contai ns project on establishment of a rctic (winter) power stations (see our publication: Journal of Thermal Engineering, Vol.51, 2, 2004, B.M. Ovchinnikov et al. Pow er plants that use the thermal energy of natural wa ter bodies and the atmosphere ) 1 . The work is based on the power that is released, when water freezes with releasing of large energy (333 Joules per 1 gram of water). The general principle of the station consists in next. The water is frozen on the boiler, which is located in the water (river, lake or ocean), in the boiler the working fluid evaporates, enters the turbine and after that it is fed into the cooling tower, the cold air cooled, liquefied and p umped back to the boiler etc. Keywords: electric al engineering, power station, design, generator, renewable , energy system 1. Introduction The main problem humanity must solve in the near future is the energy problem . Although the available deposit of hydrocarbon gases under the seabed are enough to last several hundreds of years, the continent combustion of hydrocarbons fuels and the results buildup carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is unacceptable because of the growing greenhouse effect a nd the approaching environmental catastrophe. Nuclear power poses a risk to the environment through the pos sibilities of another Chernobyl -type (or Fucushima -type ) disaster and the yet unresolved problem of nuclear -waste recovery. Moreover, the supply of u ranium and thorium from na tural deposits is limited to a few centuries. Renewable energy sources (RESs) and power stations based on wind, solar, hydro, and geothermal energy have not such disadvantages and they do not emit carbon dioxide into the atmospher e. Recent years have seen the development of power stations using the thermal energy of natural bodies of water (seas, oceans, rivers, and lakes). These RESs and power stations are also free from the above negative effects. Compared to conventional energy sources, the advantage of RESs is their virtual inexhaustibility and environmental friendliness 2 -4 . As early as 1881, French physicist Jacques -Arsene d Arsonval first demonstrated the possibly of developing a heat engine that could operate on a tempe rature difference between a heater and a cooler of about 20 C. Reference 5 describes using the energy of naturally heated water in warm zones of the World Ocean for industrial power production. Even more efficient were the designs for floating large - capacity (100 -MV) OTPS systems developed by the American Lockheed and SSP companies in 1978 and 1981, respectively 6 . Arctic electric power stations that use the difference between the temperatures of the sub -ice sheet waters and of the air are being d eveloped 7 . 2. Operation principle of arctic electric power station. The work of arctic station is based on the power that released, when water freezes (1 gram of water releases 333 Joules of heat). The station contains the working body (gas), which is liquef ied at the arctic temperature (about minus 30 0 C) and evaporates at the temperature about 0 C. The station operates on organic Rankine cycle. The station consists of turbine, electric generator, pump s, condenser, cooling tower, boiler -evaporator and buffer (Fig.1). The boiler is locates in water (river, lake or ocean). The working body is liquefied in the cooling tower, and pumped to the boiler, the water is frozen on the surface of the boiler with the heat releasing, th e working body is evaporates, enters the turbine, makes the work and then enters to the cooling tower, liquefied and after that is pumped to the boiler etc. The working fluid of the unit is a volatile liquid with a low freezing point. The evaporator, the t urbine and the condenser contain the working fluid at pressures than enable the fluid to evaporate at the temperature that exists in the evaporator and condense at the temperature attained in the condenser . In fig. 2 -4 we present the design of cooling towe r, condenser and boiler -evaporator . The turbine, generator, pumps and buffer are standard industrial devices. Fig.1 Operation principle of power station 2.1 Construction of boiler -evaporator. Figure 2 shows the design of a tubular boiler -evaporator. It is installed in sub -ice sheet water having a temperature close 0 C. The evaporator tubes are quite closely oriented to the vertical position. At the same time, the distribution of the working fluid allows the liquid to flow down along the tubes in unifor m layers. Such a regime ensures maximum heat transfer from the tube walls to the working fluid. The water temperature is close to zero, and the working fluid absorbs heat from the water, heats up, and evaporates; therefore, a certain icing of the tube s urfaces during operation is inevitable. The heat release is 333 J oules per gram of ice, that is, intense heat transfer from the freezing water to the tube walls takes place. This method of heating the evaporator tubes by icing them is much more efficient then one based on supplying a great deal of water with a near -zero temperature
__label__energy	From CCS-Planning to Testautomation: The Digital Testﬁeld of Deutsche Bahn in Scheibenberg - A Case Study Arne Boockmeyer , Dirk Friedenbergery, Lukas Pirl , Robert Schmid and Andreas Polze Professorship for Operating Systems and Middleware Hasso Plattner Institute, University of Potsdam Potsdam, Germany Email: fﬁrstname.lastname g hpi.uni-potsdam.de,ydirk.friedenberger guest.hpi.de Heiko Herholzz Eisenbahn-Betriebs- und Experimentierfeld Berlin (EBuEf) Fachgebiet Bahnbetrieb und Infrastruktur, Technische Universit at Berlin Berlin, Germany Email:zheiko.herholz tu-berlin.de Gisela Freiin von Arnimx, Pedro Lehmann Ib a nez , Torsten Friedrichk, Christoph Klauskand Christian Wilhelmik DB Netz AG Frankfurt, Cologne and Berlin, Germany Email:xgisela.freiin-von-arnim deutschebahn.com, pedro.lehmann-ibanez deutschebahn.com, kfﬁrstname.lastname g deutschebahn.com Abstract The digitalization of railway systems should increase the efﬁciency of the train operation to achieve future mobility challenges and climate goals. But this digitalization also comes with several new challenges in providing a secure and reliable train operation. The work resulting in this paper tackles two major challenges. First, there is no single university curriculum combining computer science, railway operation, and certiﬁcation processes. Second, many railway processes are still manual and without the usage of digital tools and result in static implementations and conﬁgurations of the railway infrastructure devices. This case study occurred as part of the Digital Rail Summer School 2021, a university course combining the three mentioned aspects as cooperation of several German universities with partners from the railway industry. It passes through all steps from a digital Control-Command and Signalling (CCS) planning in ProSig 7.3, the transfer, and validation of the planning in the PlanPro data format and toolbox, to the generation of code of an interlocking for the digital CCS planning to contribute to the vision of test automation. This paper contributes the experiences of the case study and a proof-of-concept of the whole lifecycle for the Digital Testﬁeld of Deutsche Bahn in Scheibenberg. This proof-of-concept will be continued in ongoing and following projects to fulﬁll the vision of test automation and automated launching of new devices. Index Terms Railway Digitalization, Digital CCS Planning, PlanPro, Generic Interlocking, Interlocking Code Generation, Testautomation 2021 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.I. I NTRODUCTION The digitalization of railway systems does not only mean introducing new devices and computer-based processes, but digitalization also means new challenges in the area of training and education of all involved persons. Digitalization is a core topic that applies to all areas and connects them in a new manner. This also affects security-relevant areas like the railway industry. For this new challenge, deep knowledge in computer science and domain-speciﬁc knowledge about railway operation and certiﬁcation processes needs to be combined. No single university curriculum combines all these aspects. The Digital Rail Summer School 20211addresses the challenges of the three mentioned dimensions of the digi- talization of the railway in the third iteration. The Digital Testﬁeld of Deutsche Bahn in Scheibenberg, Saxony offers the opportunity to evaluate and test innovations in praxis. The planned experimental railway station Scheibenberg is the ideal demonstrator for these tests. The authors of this paper describe their experiences with a continuous digital planning process as an hour-of-birth of a digital twin as part of the Control- Command and Signalling (CCS) lifecycle and their resulting possibilities for new applications in all phases. This process is visualized in Fig. 1. Trainees of DB Netze developed, based on digital track network data, an 1https: hpi.de drssarXiv:2109.14378v1 cs.CY 29 Sep 2021 Digital CCS- Planning in ProSig 7.3Planning Validation in the PlanPro ToolboxCode Generation for an Interlocking Logic based on Prolog rulesTest case execution and evaluation PPXML PPXML Generated Interlocking Code. Fig. 1. The full process of the case study from a digital CCS planning to test automation. The digital CCS planning happens in the tool ProSig 7.3. This tool produces a PPXML-ﬁle following the PlanPro standard containing the planning. In the next step, the PlanPro toolbox validates the planning. This planning is the input for generating the code of an interlocking logic. The vision here is to use such an interlocking to automate the evaluation of new railway infrastructure devices. interlocking-planning for the experimental railway station Scheibenberg with ProSig 7.3 in the PlanPro2data format 1 , 2 . This CCS plan is validated in the PlanPro toolbox. Building on the PlanPro-ﬁle, students of the TU Berlin, TU Dresden, and the Hasso Plattner Institute (HPI), Univ. Potsdam created a toolchain to read and process PlanPro ﬁles to gen- erate an interlocking logic with Prolog - a common language for artiﬁcial intelligence. This interlocking logic contains ﬁrst rules like the mutual exclusion of the routes. This logic will be used as part of the future vision of test automation and automated launching of new devices in the railway domain. The result of the cooperation of the three universities with DB Netz as part of the Digital Rail Summer School 2021 is a method to generate prototypical interlocking-logics for digital interlockings. At the same time, this project is an example of the advantages of continuous digital planning processes for the realization and operation of future CCS sites. The following paper follows the four steps shown in Fig. 1. In the end, it sums up with a conclusion and shows potential for future work. II. S TATUS QUO: DIGITAL PLANNING WITH PLANPRO- PRACTITIONER S REPORT Conventional planning processes for Control-command and Signalling (CCS) technology and even currently widespread digitalized solutions, still differ very strongly from digital, data-based CCS planning processes. Nowadays CCS planning is still strongly based on drawings and paper, with the conventional methods including handwrit- ing and hand-calculations. The digitalization of these processes has led to the use of self-made excel-sheets as calculation aids as well as PDF documents. Most of the infrastructure engineers today either plan in CAD-based programs such as ProSig 6 or on paper
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 Effect of polymeric additives on ignition, combustion and flame characteristics and soot deposits of crude oil droplets Gurjap Singh 1 , Mehdi Esmaeilpour 2, Albert Ratner 1 1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA 2 College of Information Technology and Engineering, Marshall University, Huntington, WV 25755, USA Contact: gurjap- singh uiowa.edu Abstract: Many oil fires have resulted from the crude oil train derailments in recent years. Given the importance of crude oil shipping by rail to the energy security of the US, it is important to consider various methods that will decrease the likelihood of crude oil catching fire in case of a crude oil derailment. Present study examines t he effect of polybutadiene polymer on the combustion properties and soot deposits of Bakken and Pennsylvania crudes. Treating these crudes as multicomponent liquid fuels and polybutadiene as an additive, droplet combustion experiments were conducted with s ub-millimeter sized spherical droplets suspended on very fine support fibers. Polybutadiene polymer additive of two different chain lengths has been investigated. Results show that both polymer chain length and origin of crude oil have a significant effect on various combustion properties like combustion rate, ignition delay, total combustion time , and flame stand- off ratio. Polymeric additives also change the soot deposit structure and particle size compared to the base fuel. Present research is envisioned to aid in theoretical combustion modeling of complex multicomponent liquid fuels, as well as generate interest in investigating more polymeric additives for liquid fuels. Number of words: 189 Keywords: Bakken crude; Pennsyl vania crude; polymer combustion ; droplet combustion; burning rate ; crude oil Nomenclature: 𝑑𝑑0 initial droplet diameter 𝑑𝑑(𝑡𝑡) the droplet diameter at time 𝑡𝑡 𝑡𝑡 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝜏𝜏 combustion time 𝑘𝑘 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝐾𝐾 burning rate 𝑀𝑀𝑛𝑛 polymer chain length Abbreviations: CCD: charge -coupled device CMOS: complementary metal- oxide semiconductor FSR: flame stand -off ratio GC-MS: gas chromatography- mass spectrometry PBD: Polybutadiene PBD5k: Polybutadiene 𝑀𝑀𝑛𝑛 5,000 PBD200k: Polybutadiene 𝑀𝑀𝑛𝑛 200 ,000 2 1. Introduction: The oil boom in the North Dakota Bakken formation has presented a logistical problem of having to ship the said crude to oil refineries. The proposed Keystone XL pipeline, meant to connect the Bakken oilfields to the already -existing Keystone oil distribution system 1 has been delayed indefinitely. The shortfall in pipeline transportation has been taken up by rail. From 2010 to 2015, crude oil shipments from the Midwest to the rest of the US have steadily increased 2 . Rail infrastructure has become critical to the energy security of the United States, with rail crude transport supplying more than half the feedstock of East Coast refineries 3 . However, this extra shipping load has placed an unprecedented stress on the aging US rail infrastructure. In recent years, many oil train derailments and crashes have occurred, which generally result in devastating oil fires and a loss of life and property 4 5 6 . Such oil fires are of special relevance to the very sweet and light Bakken crude oil, which contains a large amount of easy t o vaporize, easy to burn light ends 7 . It is an expensive and time- consuming proposition to upgrade US rail infrastructure to promote safer crude oil transport . This manuscript explores polymeric additives as a stopgap measure to control the burning behavior of crude in case of a crude train derailment and spillage. Previous research has investigated the addition of long chained polymers to diesel and its blends to suppress mist formation and splashing 8 . It has been found that adding long chain polymers to diesel and Jet -A droplets 9 and their surrogate blends 10 , 11 slows down their burning rate and increases their ignition delay. Most notably, polymers are already being used in crude oil pipelines as drag reducing agents 12 , 13 . Very few systematic crude oil combustion studies are available currently, and those that are available generally explore pool fire properties of crude oils in relation to in- situ burning. Previous work by the authors has expl ored the droplet combustion properties of crude oils from various US oil production regions (Bakken, Colorado, Pennsylvania, Texas) 14 , as well as combustion property modification of Bakken crude oil using nano- additives 15 . It was found that Bakken, Colorado, and Pennsylvania crude oil droplet combustion rates were comparable , but Texas crude oil burned with high microexplosion intensity. Present work similarly treats Pennsylvania and Bakken crudes as multicomponent liquid fuels and aims to establish the modification to their droplet combustion properties and soot residue properties when polybutadiene (PBD) polymer of two chain lengths (5,000 and 200,000) is blended to them in various proportions. A well -established, bench -top method has been used for present work, which has previously used to establish various combustion properties for isolated spherical droplets of liquid fuels such as combustion rate 9 , 10 , 14 18 , ignition delay 14 , 15 , 17 , and total c ombustion time 14 , 15 , 17 . It uses only a small amount of sample, promotes spherical symmetry, and yields conveniently usable data for further analysis. The crude oil used in present work was obtained from the Northeast oil production region (Pennsylvania) and the Rocky Mountain oil production region (Bakken) of the United States. Although significant variety exists in crude oil properties, Table 1 presents typical properties of Bakken crude 7 and Pennsylvania crude 19 . Additionally, Appendix A presents gas chromatography -mass spectrometry (GC -MS) data for both crude oils. Table 1. Typical properties of crudes tested Property Crude Oil Bakken crude Pennsylvania crude Initial Boiling Point 0C 21 30 Specific Gravity 0.815 0.832 Polybutadiene (PBD) was obtained from Sigma Aldrich . Formed from the polymerization of 1,3- butadiene (𝐻𝐻2𝐶𝐶 𝐶𝐶 𝐶𝐶𝐻𝐻 𝐶𝐶𝐻𝐻2) monomer, PBD is a commercially available, long chain polymer with a several applications, such as making tires, golf balls, and toys. One PBD variety that was tested had chain length 𝑀𝑀 𝑛𝑛 5,000 and
__label__energy	Cascading of Fluctuations in Interdependent Energy Infrastructures: Gas-Grid Coupling Michael Chertkov,1Vladimir Lebedev,2and Scott Backhaus3 1Theoretical Division Center for Nonlinear Studies, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545, USA 2Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics, Moscow, Russia 3Materials Physics and Applications Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545, USA The revolution of hydraulic fracturing 1 has dramatically increased the supply and lowered the cost of natural gas in the United States driving an expansion of natural gas- red generation capacity in many electrical grids 2 . Unrelated to the natural gas expansion, lower capital costs 3 and renewable portfolio 4 standards are driving an expansion of intermittent renewable generation capacity such as wind and photovoltaic generation. These two changes may potentially combine to create new threats to the reliability of these interdependent energy infrastructures. Natural gas- red generators are often used to balance the uctuating output of wind generation. However, the time-varying output of these generators results in time-varying natural gas burn rates that impact the pressure in interstate transmission pipelines. Fluctuating pressure impacts the reliability of natural gas deliveries to those same generators and the safety of pipeline operations. We adopt a partial di erential equation model of natural gas pipelines and use this model to explore the e ect of intermittent wind generation on the uctuations of pressure in natural gas pipelines. The mean square pressure uctuations are found to grow linearly in time with points of maximum deviation occurring at the locations of ow reversals. PACS numbers: 89.30.an,47.85.-g,05.40.-a The ongoing evolution to intermittent wind and solar electric generation is causing many electrical grid oper- ators to use more agile natural gas- red electric gener- ation to balance these new stochastic resources. This interdependence causes a cascade of the uctuations of renewable generation into the systems that supply fuel to the gas- red generators, i.e. natural gas pipelines. We develop a model of the coupling between electrical grid uctuations and natural gas pipeline systems, ana- lyze the resulting uctuations of pipeline pressure, and draw conclusions about the impact of renewable electri- cal generation on the stability and security of natural gas pipelines. I. INTRODUCTION By making unconventional natural gas sources eco- nomic to extract, hydrofracking has created a revolu- tion in the U.S. natural gas industry 1 . Many of these new gas sources are in nontraditional locations such as the Marcellus shale in Pennsylvania, the Niobrara shale in Eastern Colorado, and the Bakken shale in North Dakota. See Fig. 1. The dramatic increase in supply has driven down prices and spurred many new or ex- panded uses for natural gas 5, 6 . This revolution in the natural gas supply and loads is creating new chal- lenges for natural gas pipelines that transport the gas from source to load. With a limited amount of through- put and short-term gas storage (in the form of pressure in pipeline itself), these pipelines may become vulnerable as their operating environment changes.A dominant new load on the gas pipelines is natu- ral gas- red generators. Previously, the marginal cost of electricity from these generators was higher than from coal- red generators. However, the rapid drop in gas prices has made gas generation competitive with coal and spurred its construction. An example of this dramatic ex- pansion is in the electrical grid controlled by the Indepen- dent System Operator of New England (ISO-NE) where natural gas- red electrical generation increased from 5 of total capacity to 51 in a span of 20 years 2 . A parallel development in many U.S. electrical grids is the expansion of intermittent renewable generation such as wind and PhotoVoltaic (PV) generation a trend that is expected to continue as utilities work to meet state- imposed renewable portfolio standards that mandate a certain fraction of electrical generation be derived from renewable sources. See Fig. 2. In contrast to traditional nuclear, coal, or gas- red generation, these new forms of generation have a small degree of controllability. To maintain the second-by-second balance of generation and load, other grid resources must respond to counteract the uctuations of the intermittent generation. Although many di erent types of advanced control of nontradi- tional resources are being considered to provide these balancing services, e.g. grid-scale battery storage and demand response, the currently most available resources are the controllable traditional generators with gas- red generators being the most exible among these. The combination of expanded natural gas- red genera- tion and its increased use to balance intermittent renew- able generation is creating loads on natural gas pipelines that are signi cantly di erent than in the past. Tradi-arXiv:1411.2111v1 physics.soc-ph 8 Nov 2014 2 FIG. 1: (Left) The Natural Gas Pipeline Network of the United States. Interstate pipelines are not signi cantly meshed and primarily display a tree-like structure. (Right) Major US shale gas basins new sources of natural gas that will encourage realignment of US National Gas Network. FIG. 2: (Left) US Power Transmission Grid (including po- tential future transmission expansions) superimposed on wind power capacity map. (Right) Solar power capacity map with proposed transmission lines to improve the integration of so- lar resources into the existing power grid. (Adapted from Na- tional Public Radio, Visualizing the U.S. Electric Grid, 2009.)tional gas pipeline loads (Load Distribution Companies or LDCs) primarily serve space or water heating or other individual customer needs and evolve slowly throughout the day in a relatively well-known pattern that can be predicted based on historical information and weather forecasts. Other traditional pipeline customers are in- dustrial loads that, although they may change from day to day, are very predictable over the span of a day. In contrast, when gas- red generation is used to balance uctuating renewable generation, a component of the re- sulting gas loads take on a stochastic nature. Unlike the gas load of an LDC, wind and PV generation respond toshort-term uctuations in environmental conditions, e.g. wind uctuations on the timescale of 10-100 minutes and solar insolation uctuations on the timescale of 1-100 minutes. At the
__label__energy	The Global Carbon Negative and the Scope 4 Neutralized Carbon Emissions Zhu Liu1 , Guangqian Wang2 1 Department of Earth System Science, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 2 State Key Laboratory of Hydroscience and Engineering, Department of Hydraulic Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China Corresponding author E-mail: zhuliu tsinghua.edu.cn Abstract Assessing carbon negative and carbon neutrality is critical for mitigating and adapting global climate change. Here we propose d a new framework to account for carbon -negative and carbon -neutral actions by introducing the definition of Carbon Negative (C0), Carbon Neutrality Stock (C1) , Carbon Supply (C2) and carbon -neutral emissions or Scope 4 emissions, which refers to the avoided emission due to use of non -fossil energy or C1 products . For the first time, we calculated the global neutralized carbon emissions or Scope 4 emission by renewable electricity generation, and the results indicating the significant contributions by China, with total neutralized carbon emissions ( 2.15 Mt C day ) much higher than the U.S. (0.85 Mt C day) and EU27 UK (1.25 Mt C day) together. We show that China contributed to more than 36 of global neutralized CO 2 emissions, and such contributions are still increasing. This new framework reflects China s remarkable contribution s to the global climate mitigation through the development of carbon neutrality energy system . Keywords: Carbonsphere ; Carbon Neutrality ; Climate Change, Anthropocene 1 Introduction The global CO2 budget accounts for all natural 1 2 3-5 and human -driven CO2 sources and sinks within Earth s carbon cycle 5-10 . In the natural carbon cycle, carbon moves between the atmosphere, oceans, land, and living organisms 1 2 . Photosynthesis absorbs CO2 from the air, storing it in plants and soils, while respiration, decomposition, and consumption by animals return it to the atmosphere. The natural carbon cycle also includes long-term carbon storage in soils and the lithospher e 3-5 , which serves as a crucial mechanism for sustaining life on Earth and maintaining ecosystem functions 11 . However, human activities have significantly altered this natural carbon cycle. The combustion of fossil fuels, such as coal, oil, and gas, releases carbon stored in the lithosphere 9, 10, 12 -14 , while processes like deforestation reduce the land s capacity to absorb and store CO2 11, 15 -18 . This has resulted in the formation of an anthropogenic carbon cycle, where human -induced CO2 emissions disrupt the balance between carbon sources and sinks. Between 2010 and 2019, human activities released an average of 10.9 0.9 petagrams of carbon (PgC) annually, with 46 of this CO2 absorbed by the atmosphere, 23 by the oceans, and 31 by terrestrial ecosystems. The remaining 0.1 PgC per year represents a budget imbalance within the uncertainties of the overall budget. Variations in the absorption rates of individual carbon sinks contribute to the complexities of the global carbon budget 19 , but it is clear that anthropogenic emissions are the primary driver of the observed increase in atmospheric CO2 and the growing imbalance in the carbon cycle 20 . Human activities modify carbon flows and stocks through interactions with the land, ocean, and atmosphere 22, 23 . Carbon neutrality, a key benchmark for climate mitigation, is defined by the IPCC AR6 as achieving a balance between anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and removals. Current mitigation strategies, such as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) an d carbon neutrality targets set by countries, rely on emission accounting principles that focus on direct emissions (Scope 1), emissions from imported electricity (Scope 2) 24 , and supply chain emissions (Scope 3) 25 . These measures, however, often overlook the role of replacing fossil fuels with carbon -neutral energy sources. In this context, the concept of Scope 4 emissions is gaining attention, referring to avoided emissions achieved by using carbon -neutral technologies or energy sources in place of fossil fuels , however, clear definition and calculation of Scope 4 emissions are still lacking, become challenges for implementing carbon mitigation and negative actions in both national and regional scales. Here in this paper, we developed the new accounting framework for assessing the carbon - negative and carbon -neutral actions, through defin ing three key categories: Carbon dioxide removal or negative carbon (C0) , representing true carbon -negative processes; carbon neutrality stock (C1) , which refers to carbon captured in man -made carbon -containing products; and carbon supply (C2) . Given the fact that the final use of C1 products eventually re-releases captured carbon, we introduce the concept of carbon -neutral emissions or Scope 4 emissions associated with Recycling (CO2 emissions from the final use of carbon -containing products) or Replacement (the use of non -fossil -based materials and energy like renewables). We estimated the calculation of neutralized carbon emissions or Scope 4 emission by global renewable electricity generation for the first time, and the results indicating the significant contribution by China, with total neutralized carbon emissions (2.15 Mt C day ) much higher than the U.S. (0.85 Mt C day, 14.2 ) and EU27 UK (1.25 Mt C day) together. 2 Methodology 2.1 Accounting framework for carbon negative and Scope 4 Neutralized Carbon Emissions There are four primary processes that enable carbon uptake through human activities: (1) photosynthesis in ecosystems, (2) natural weathering processes (such as the fossilization of limestone minerals), (3) chemical catalysis to produce carbon -containing c ompounds, and (4) direct CO2 air capture and concentration via physical methods. The products of these processes are either carbon -containing compounds or, in rare cases, elemental carbon (e.g., diamond). Whether these products create a long -term carbon si nk depends on their lifecycle: consumption or oxidation leads to carbon being released back into the atmosphere as CO2, whereas products that avoid these fates and enter the lithosphere or biosphere can be classified as part of a permanent carbon sink or as a carbon -negative process. However, most carbon -containing products created through chemical processes (such as fuels or plastics) only temporarily store carbon. Ultimately, when these products are consumed
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	1 Modeling and Analysis of Energy Harvesting and Smart Grid-Powered Wireless Communication Networks: A Contemporary Survey Shuyan Hu, Xiaojing Chen, Wei Ni, Xin Wang, and Ekram Hossain Abstract The advancements in smart power grid and the advocation of green communications have inspired the wire- less communication networks to harness energy from ambient environments and operate in an energy-efﬁcient manner for economic and ecological beneﬁts. This article presents a con- temporary review of recent breakthroughs on the utilization, redistribution, trading and planning of energy harvested in future wireless networks interoperating with smart grids. This article starts with classical models of renewable energy harvesting technologies. We embark on constrained operation and opti- mization of different energy harvesting wireless systems, such as point-to-point, multipoint-to-point, multipoint-to-multipoint, multi-hop, and multi-cell systems. We also review wireless power and information transfer technologies which provide a special implementation of energy harvesting wireless communications. A signiﬁcant part of the article is devoted to the redistribution of redundant (unused) energy harvested within cellular networks, the energy planning under dynamic pricing when smart grids are in place, and two-way energy trading between cellular networks and smart grids. Applications of different optimization tools, such as convex optimization, Lagrangian dual-based method, subgradient method, and Lyapunov-based online optimization, are compared. This article also collates the potential applications of energy harvesting techniques in emerging (or upcoming) 5G B5G communication systems. It is revealed that an effective redistribution and two-way trading of energy can signiﬁcantly reduce the electricity bills of wireless service providers and decrease the consumption of brown energy. A list of interesting research directions are provided, requiring further investigation. Index Terms 5G B5G communication networks, energy har- Work in this paper was supported by the National Natural Science Founda- tion of China under Grant 61671154, and the Innovation Program of Shanghai Municipal Science and Technology Commission under Grant 17510710400. The work of W. Ni was supported by the Fudan University Key Laboratory (State Key Lab of ASIC and System) Senior Visiting Scholarship. The work of E. Hossain was supported in part by an ENGAGE Grant (EGP 533553- 18) from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). The work of S. Hu and X. Chen was done when they were with the Department of Communication Science and Engineering, Fudan University. S. Hu is with the State Key Laboratory of ASIC and System, the School of Information Science and Technology, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China (e-mail: syhu14 fudan.edu.cn). X. Chen is with the Shanghai Institute for Advanced Communication and Data Science, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, China (e-mail: jodiechen shu.edu.cn). W. Ni is with the Commonwealth Scientiﬁc and Industrial Re- search Organization (CSIRO), Sydney, NSW 2122, Australia (e-mail: wei.ni data61.csiro.au). X. Wang is with the State Key Laboratory of ASIC and System, the Shanghai Institute for Advanced Communication and Data Science, the Department of Communication Science and Engineering, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China (e-mail: xwang11 fudan.edu.cn). E. Hossain is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engi- neering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 5V6, Canada (e-mail: ekram.hossain umanitoba.ca). The ﬁrst two authors contributed equally to this work.vesting, smart grid, energy redistribution and trading, optimiza- tion techniques. I. I NTRODUCTION Future mobile cellular communication networks are envis- aged to be rolled out with a dramatically increasing number of cells and continuously reducing cell size, due to explosive mobile trafﬁc 1 . The trafﬁc volume in the emerging ﬁfth- generation (5G) systems and future systems beyond 5G (B5G) is estimated to be tens of Exabytes per month, expecting the capacity of 5G B5G networks to be 1000 times higher than that of current cellular networks 2 , 3 . The thousand-fold increase of system capacity must be achieved with a similar or even lower power level than today s 4 , 5 . Increasing the network energy efﬁciency (EE) has been pursued by the GreenTouch consortium 6 , 7 . Huawei has also deployed solar-powered base stations (BSs) in Bangladesh 8 . Ericson and Nokia Siemens Networks have designed green BSs with renewable power supplies, such as wind turbines and solar pan- els, to reduce the consumption of fuel generated electricity 9 , 10 . Energy-efﬁcient techniques, such as BS switching 11 , ofﬂine power allocation 12 , and online data scheduling 13 , 14 have been developed to reduce power consumption or increase network capacity. Along with the development of cellular networks, power grid is also undergoing a radical revolution. Rapidly emerging smart grids, enabled with smart meters, are expected to provide new intelligent functionalities, e.g., decentralized power pro- duction generation, bidirectional (also known as two-way ) energy trading, energy redistribution, and request manage- ment coordination 15 . Cellular networks, as integrating com- ponents (or elements) of smart grids, can support effective energy utilization and redistribution, and price negotiation by interoperating with smart grids 16 , 17 . Smart grid and green communications have spawned extensive studies recently. Several magazine articles 1 , 14 , 16 , 18 20 and survey papers 3 , 21 29 review energy-efﬁcient and energy harvesting (EH) powered commu- nication networks from a range of different angles. However, none of the existing reviews captures comprehensively the constrained wireless operations powered by renewable energy sources (RES) and their underlaying optimization method- ologies, and the interoperability between wireless networks and smart grids (as done in this article). Energy-efﬁcient techniques for 5G networks are summarized in 3 and 21 ,arXiv:1912.13203v1 eess.SY 31 Dec 2019 2 EH and smart grid-powered wireless networks Types and models for RES (Sec. II) Smart grid-powered wireless networks (Sec. VIII) Wireless power and information transfer (Sec. VII) 5G B5G applications of EH and smart grid-powered wireless networks (Sec. XI) Energy redistribution Energy planning under dynamic pricing (Sec. IX) Two-way energy trading and cooperation (Sec. X) EH-based wireless networks Point-to-point link (Sec. III) Multipoint-to-point system (Sec. IV) Multipoint-to-multipoint system (Sec. V) Multi-hop link (Sec. VI) Lessons learnt and future directions (Sec. XII) Fig. 1. The main structure of this article. from the aspects of network deployment, energy spectrum ef-
__label__energy	arXiv:2203.11073v1 nucl-th 9 Mar 2022Questioning the239Pu(n,2n)238Pu cross section shape above emission threshold O. Bouland CEA, DES, IRESNE, DER, SPRC, Physics Studies Laboratory, Cadarache, F-13108 Saint-Paul-lez-Durance, France V. M eot and O. Roig CEA, DAM, DIF, F-91297 Arpajon France Universit e Paris-Saclay, CEA, LMCE, 91680, Bruy eres le Chatel, France. (Dated: March 22, 2022) In the light of the JEF(F) European project longstanding sto ry according to the determination of the most exact shape of the239Pu(n,2n)238Pu reaction cross section and a recent measurement by M eot et al., this paper aims to shed another light on this topic by bringi ng new theoretical feedback. To achieve this goal, the AVXSF-LNG computer prog ram has been upgraded to model second-chance reactions usingits decay-probability modu le and, thenchained tothe TALYS-ECIS06 nuclear reaction system of codes. Present diligent calcula tion of the (n,2n) cross section over the energy range from the threshold to the onset of third-chance ﬁssion at about 12 MeV, suggests that current evaluations under-estimate the239Pu(n,2n) cross section below 10 MeV; under-estimation of the order of 7 relatively to the JEFF-3.1 evaluation. On t his ground, we propose an upward correction to the normalization of the measurement by M eot et al.Correction factor of about 1.24 with a maximum uncertainty on present ﬁtted model estimated to 11.6 . Latter value is extracted from a sensitivity analysis of the calculation route to the l evel density model that is selected for the non-equilibrated residual nucleus and to alternative choi ces we can make in terms of neutron ﬁssion cross section measurement references for the238Pu and239Pu target nuclei. PACS numbers: I. INTRODUCTION A recent measurement of the239Pu(n,2n)238Pu re- action cross section right above threshold energy using the recoil method for counting238Pu nuclei by M eot et al. 1 , has brought a new piece of information according to the shape of the reaction. An important conclusion by the authors was the conﬁrmation of the disagreement between the set of measurements previously reported and the JEFF-3.3 evaluation 2 in the vicinity of the 239Pu(n,2n) reaction threshold. A list of the239Pu(n,2n) published experiments is given in Table I. Those mea- surements have been commented extensively by M eot et al. 1 and McNabb et al. 3 including the experimental techniques used. Therefore we will not comment further in present paper except when actually needed. The evaluation state-of-the-art according to the 239Pu(n,2n) angular-integrated reaction cross section is well synthesized by Fig. 1 on which are drawn from one side, experimental data and on the other side, some major evaluated curves. Recent evaluations (by contrast to the old JEF-2.2 9 data ﬁle) remain consistent except near threshold and at energies above the maximum of the excitation function. The JEFF-3.3 fast neutron energy evaluation (above 30 keV) has been performed by Romain et al. 10 very carefully following the full model methodology that enforces consistency over Electronic address: olivier.bouland cea.frTABLE I: . List of the measurements according to the 239Pu(n,2n)238Pu reaction cross section. Authors Range (MeV) Method Year Refs. M eotet al. 7-9 Recoil 2021 1 Beckeret al. 6-22 Partialγraies2002 4, 5 Lougheed et al. 13-15 Activation 2002 6 Fr ehaut et al. 6-13 Direct 1980 7 neutron-counting Matheret al. 6-13 Direct 1972 8 neutron-counting a unique nuclear data set according here to the Pu isotope series. The ENDF B-VIII.0239Pu(n,2n) evalu- ation 11 is based on a rigorous least-squares analysis of a database limited to the measurements by Becker et al.and Lougheed et al.Indeed the results of Fr ehaut et al.show much lower values around threshold than the selected database and exhibit very large uncertainties in the upper energy range. The oldest data set (1972) by Mather et al.has been rejected by ENDF B-VIII.0 because of full disagreement with all other data sets and poor experimental description. The239Pu(n,2n)238Pu reaction cross section has been extensively modeled over the years with various theoretical approaches 10, 14 18 or adjustment tech- 2 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 Incident neutron energy MeV -0,050,000,050,100,150,200,250,300,350,400,450,500,550,600,65(n,2n) angle-integrated cross sections b JENDL4.0u JEFF-3.3 JEFF-3.1 ENDF B-VIII.0 JEF-2.2 Lougheed (2002) Becker - McNaab (2001) Mather et al. (1972) Fréhaut (Original) MEOT et al. (2021) FIG. 1: (Color online) Comparison of the JEFF-3.3 2 , ENDF B-VIII.0 11 , JENDL4.0u 12 and old JEF-2.2 9 evaluations (solid and dashed lines) with the experimental data (symbols) reported for the 239Pu(n,2n) reaction cross section. Experimental values plotted are those corrected by McNabb et al. 3 except the data by Fr ehaut et al.and M eot et al., which are respectively taken from EXFOR 13 and Ref. 1 . niques 3, 9, 19, 20 but no deﬁnitive outcome was reached. Regarding the JEF(F) project, the question of the right magnitude and shape of the239Pu(n,2n) cross section is a longstanding story that has been highlighted in 1997 at the time of the JEF-2.2 data ﬁle validation. Fort et al. 9 pointed out a severe conﬂict between the (n,2n) excitation function shape as suggested by the Fr ehaut et al. 7 measurement and the feedback brought by the analysis of an integral measurement (the PROFIL program performed in the PHENIX reactor 19 ) that suggested, through a Bayesian adjustment based on the whole JEF-2.2 evaluated database, a reduction factor of 1.55 to the Fr ehaut et al. 7 data. However at the time of the evaluation, the preference was given to the experiment as acknowledgedby the JEF-2.2evaluated curvein Fig 1. According to present era, Fig. 1 still carries issues about the most exact magnitude of the239Pu(n,2n) cross section over the 7-10 MeV region, the correct shape at above 13 MeV and the ultimate disqualiﬁcation of the experimental data by Fr ehaut et al. 7 . Present paper is willing to consolidate the recent results by M eot et al. 1 since the authors have emphasized that their mea- surements are still relative to the previously published data at high energy. Indeed, their uncertainties are dominated by the systematic uncertainty arising from the data of Becker et al. 4, 5 adopted as
__label__energy	Modelling and analysis of oﬀshore energy hubs Hongyu Zhanga, , Asgeir Tomasgarda, Brage Rugstad Knudsenb, Harald G. Svendsenb, Steﬀen J. Bakkera, Ignacio E. Grossmannc aDepartment of Industrial Economics and Technology Management, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Høgskoleringen 1, 7491, Trondheim, Norway bSINTEF Energy Research, Kolbjørn Hejes vei 1B, 7491, Trondheim, Norway cDepartment of Chemical Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA Abstract Clean, multi-carrier Oﬀshore Energy Hubs (OEHs) may become pivotal for eﬃcient oﬀshore wind power generation and distribution. In addition, OEHs may provide decarbonised energy supply for maritime transport, oil and gas recovery, and oﬀshore farming while also enabling conversion and temporary storage of liqueﬁed decarbonised energy carriers for export. Here, we inves- tigate the role of OEHs in the transition of the Norwegian continental shelf energy system towards zero-emission energy supply. We develop a mixed- integer linear programming model for investment planning and operational optimisationtoachievedecarbonisationatminimumcosts. Weconsiderclean technologies, includingoﬀshorewind, oﬀshoresolar, OEHsandsubseacables. We conduct sensitivity analysis on CO 2tax, CO 2budget and the capacity of power from shore. The results show that (a) a hard carbon cap is necessary for stimulating a zero-emission oﬀshore energy system; (b) oﬀshore wind in- tegration and power from shore can more than halve current emissions, but OEHs with storage are necessary for zero-emission production and (c) at certain CO 2tax levels, the system with OEHs can potentially reduce CO 2 emissions by 50 and energy losses by 10 , compared to a system with only oﬀshore renewables, gas turbines and power from shore. Keywords: clean oﬀshore energy hub, sensitivity analysis, deterministic Abbreviations: NCS, Norwegian continental shelf; OEH, Oﬀshore energy hub; PFS, Power from shore; Base, The case with only oﬀshore renewables, gas turbines and power from shore; S1, Scenario 1; S2, Scenario 2; MILP, Mixed-integer linear programming. Corresponding author s email address: hongyu.zhang ntnu.no Preprint submitted to Energy Elsevier October 13, 2021arXiv:2110.05868v1 math.OC 12 Oct 2021 mixed-integer linear programming model 1. Introduction In 2020, the European Green Deal lifted the EU climate target aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 by2030and become the world sﬁrstcarbon-neutralcontinentby 2050 10 . TheNorthSearegionmay play a central role in this with a capacity target of 300GW for oﬀshore wind power by 2050 9 . Oﬀshore Energy Hubs (OEHs) and the hub-and-spoke concept oﬀer a transnational and cross-sector solution for better harnessing oﬀshore wind and integration with the rest of the energy system 34 . An energy hub is a physical energy connection point with energy storage where multiple energy carriers can be converted, conditioned 13 . Using OEHs to eﬀectively exploit oﬀshore wind power to decarbonise the Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) energy system may contribute to meet- ing Norway s and Europe s climate targets. Norway was the world s third- largest exporter of natural gas in 2019 24 . Oﬀshore oil and gas extraction was responsible for 26.6 (13.3Mt CO 2equivalent) of the total Norwegian greenhouse gases in 2020 45 . Norway steps up its climate goal to reduce emissions by 50 55 by2030compared to 1990levels 29 . This paper investigates the role of clean OEHs in reducing CO 2emissions from the NCS with a focus on NCS oil and gas ﬁelds. Figure 1 visualises a potential NCS energy system with OEHs, while Figure 2 illustrates the functioning of an OEH. We only consider producing green hydrogen from electrolysis. A likely ﬁrst use of OEHs may be to provide decarbonised energy supply for oﬀshore oil and gas recovery, maritime cargo transport, and oﬀshore farming 28 . In the longer term, the development of OEHs may also facilitate the transition to decarbonised continental energy export. After the lifetimes of oil and gas ﬁelds, OEHs may produce and export green hydrogen and connect with a North Sea oﬀshore grid 43, 15, 34, 5 . We develop a multi-carrier Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) model for investment planning optimisation with a high degree of operational details to cope with the short-term characteristics of the problem. We con- sider investment in clean technologies, including oﬀshore wind, oﬀshore solar, OEHs and Power From Shore (PFS). Oﬀshore oil and gas platforms involve multiple energy carriers, including electricity, heat, gas, oil and water. More potential energy carriers such as hydrogen and ammonia may become critical 2 56575859606162 2 4 6 8 10 12 longtitudelatitude1 2 3 4 5L4L5 L10 L7 L6 L8 L9L3 L2L1Figure 1: Illustration of the NCS energy system with energy hubs. L1 L5 (dotted lines) are representative HVAC cables, while L6 L10 (solid lines) are HVDC cables. Black dots represent energy hubs and the red dots represent the onshore buses they connect to. Points with diﬀerent shapes and colours represent NCS oil and gas ﬁelds. converter electrolyser hydrogen electricityhydrogen storage fuel cellshoreEnergy Hub Figure 2: Conceptual illustration of OEHs. during the oﬀshore energy system transition 12 . The operational model has an hourly time resolution. It is crucial to consider hourly operational deci- sions in a system with higher penetration of intermittent renewable energy to systematically assess the trade-oﬀ between long-term investment decisions and short-term operational decisions 22 . This is even more critical to be an acceptable alternative to current fossil-based energy provision for instal- 3 lations on the NCS where the security of supply is an absolute requirement. We use a bottom-up approach and model energy demand for devices at oil and gas platforms with hourly time resolution. In this way, we can utilise the potential shifting of loads, such as for water injection, to balance volatile renewable energy better. We conduct sensitivity analysis on CO 2tax, CO 2budget and the capacity ofPFS.Basedontheresults, weaddressthevalueofOEHsintermsofsystem costs, energy losses and emissions. The contributions of the paper are: (1) an integrated investment and operational model is developed with the following features: (a) OEHs are modelled for a large-scale oﬀshore energy system and (b) the hourly device- level energy consumption of platforms is modelled, and (2) we analyse the value of OEHs in the North Sea oﬀshore energy system transition towards zero-emission energy supply. Theoutlineofthepaperisasfollows: Section2introducesthebackground regarding
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	Dynamic Trajectory Adaptation for Efficient UAV Inspections of Wind Energy Units Serhii Svystun Department of Computer Engineering and Information Systems of Khmelnytskyi National University Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine svystuns khmnu.edu.ua Oleg Savenko Department of Computer Engineering and Information Systems of Khmelnytskyi National University Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine savenko_oleg_st ukr.netOleksandr Melnychenko Department of Computer Engineering and Information Systems of Khmelnytskyi National University Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine melnychenko khmnu.edu.ua Anatoliy Sachenko Research Institute for Intelligent Computer Systems of West Ukrainian National University Ternopil, Ukraine Department of Teleinformatics of Kazimierz Pulaski University of Radom Radom, Poland as wunu.edu.uaPavlo Radiuk Department of Computer Science of Khmelnytskyi National University Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine radiukp khmnu.edu.ua Andrii Lysyi Department of Computer Engineering and Information Systems of Khmelnytskyi National University Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine andriilysyi khmnu.edu.ua Abstract The research presents an automated method for determining the trajectory of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) for wind turbine inspection. The proposed method enables efficient data collection from multiple wind installations using UAV optical sensors, considering the spatial positioning of blades and other components of the wind energy installation. It includes component segmentation of the wind energy unit (WEU), determination of the blade pitch angle, and generation of optimal flight trajectories, considering safe di stances and optimal viewing angles. The results of computational experiments have demonstrated the advantage of the proposed method in monitoring WEU , achieving a 78 reduction in inspection time, a 17 decrease in total trajectory length, and a 6 increase in average blade surface coverage compared to traditional methods. Furthermore, the process minimizes the average deviation from the optimal trajectory by 68 , indicating its high accuracy and ability to compensate for external influences. Keywords unmanned aerial vehicles, wind turbine inspection, automated trajectory determination, dynamic trajectory adaptation, image segmentation, computer vision, optical sensors, wind energy unit I. INTRODUCTION Over the past decades , wind turbines have become essential components of the global shift towards sustainable energy. At the same time, various components of wind turbines, i.e., WEUs, require constant and timely inspections to maintain their efficiency and safety 1, 2 . Traditionally, these inspections are conducted manually by skilled technicians who physically assess the turbines 3, 4 , often requiring them to climb the massive structures or use binoculars and cameras from the ground. This approach, wh ile thorough, is fraught with challenges 5 . The physical strain on inspectors, the time -consuming nature of the task, and the risk of human error all contribute to the inefficiency of manual inspections 6 . Additionally, harsh weather conditions, such as strong winds and rain, can make these inspections both problematic and dangerous 7 , potentially compromising the health and safety of the personnel involved. Given these challenges, there is a compelling case for hypothesizing that the issues associated with human inspection of wind energy units can be efficiently addressed using UAVs combined with automated trajectory planning. UAVs, equipped with advanced opt ical and thermal sensors 8, 9 , can be programmed to follow precise flight paths around the wind turbines 10 , capturing high -resolution images and data that can be analyzed for defects and wear 11 . The automation of these flight trajectories allows fo r consistent and repeatable inspections, minimizing the variability introduced by human operators. Furthermore, UAVs can operate in conditions that would be too dangerous or impractical for humans 12, 13 , ensuring that inspections can be conducted more often and with higher accuracy 14 . The increasing need for efficient and safe wind turbine inspections, driven by the growing role of renewable energy, highlights the limitations of traditional manual methods. These methods are time -consuming 15 , risky for human operators 16 , and prone to errors due to harsh environmental conditions. The use of UAVs offers a promising alternative for automated inspections 17 , ensuring more frequent, accurate, and safer maintenance procedures 18 . This study aims to address challenges in dynamic trajec tory adaptation and efficient data collection, reducing inspection time and improving surface coverage of turbine components. The main contributions of this research are as follows: Developed an automated UAV trajectory planning method that reduces inspection time by 78 . Improved blade surface coverage by 6 through real - time adaptation to blade positioning. Minimized deviations from optimal flight paths by 68 using a proportional integral derivative controller to compensate for external influences like wind. The paper reviews related work on wind turbine inspection (Section II), presents the proposed automated trajectory method (Section III), analyzes experimental results (Section IV), and concludes with a summary and future work (Section V). II. RELATED WORKS The field of UAV -based wind turbine inspection has evolved, driven by the need for more efficient alternatives to traditional methods. Research has focused on automated trajectory planning, defect detection, and advanced data processing 19, 20 . Car et al. 21 proposed a spiral -based trajectory algorithm to improve blade coverage, while Pérez et al. 22 generated rectangular trajectories based on blade geometry. Nonetheless, both approaches exhibit limitations in dynamically adapting to rea l-time changes in blade positions during flight, which is a critical aspect of adequate UAV - based inspections. Advancements in defect detection have also been notable. Shihavuddin et al. 23 employed deep learning techniques to automatically detect surface cracks and other damage on turbine blades, showcasing significant progress in the field. Memari et al. 2 4 extended this work by incorporating thermal imaging techniques to identify internal defects and temperature anomalies, adding another layer of precision to the inspection process. Moreover, Yang et al. 9 advanced the integration of multi -sensor data, c ombining optical and thermal sensors to improve the accuracy of defect characterization. Gohar et al. 2 5 enhanced defect detection through efficient image slicing, which is particularly effective in handling ultra -high-resolution images. However, Gohar s solution relies heavily on manual UAV control, restricting its scalability and efficiency. Traditionally, UAV control for wind turbine inspections has been conducted manually, with operators independently planning and adjusting flight trajectories in real -time 2 6, 27 . As the demand for more autonomous solutions
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	1 Data-driven Distributed Control to Scale EV Integration into Power Grid Emin Ucer and Mithat Kisacikoglu Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL Emails: eucer crimson.ua.edu and mkisacik ua.edu Abstract Electric vehicles (EVs) are ﬁnally making their way onto the roads, but the challenges concerning long charging times and impact on congestion of the power distribution grid are still not resolved. Proposed solutions depend on heavy communication and rigorous computation and mostly need real-time connectivity for optimal operation; thereby, they are not scalable. With the availability of historical measurement data, EV chargers can take better-informed actions while staying mostly off-line. This study develops a distributed and data-driven congestion detection methodology together with the Additive Increase Multiplicative Decrease (AIMD) algorithm to control mass EV charging in a distribution grid. The proposed distributed AIMD algorithm performs very closely to the ideal AIMD in terms of fairness and congestion handling, and its communication need is signiﬁcantly low. The results can provide crucial insights on how data can be used to reveal the inner dynamics and structure of the power grid and help develop more advanced data-driven algorithms for grid integrated power electronics control. I. I NTRODUCTION High penetration of electric vehicles (EVs) with uncon- trolled charging will cause transformer and line congestion in the power distribution grid. Among some adverse effects of this congestion are severe voltage drops, increased peak load- ing, thermal overheating, and even failure of equipment 1 5 . Therefore, control of EV charging has become an impor- tant research effort to mitigate these issues. Demand-side load management is a technique that is used to modify customer demand through various tools and methods. Curtailing this demand at peak hours is known as peak-shaving . It is used to eliminate short-term demand spikes by smoothing out peak loads, preventing equipment overloading. This study will in- vestigate a peak-shaving methodology to reduce the substation peak loading caused by mass EV integration. Conventional methods for EV charging control require excessive system information, e.g., the grid topology, load forecasting, and customer preferences 6 10 . Uninterrupted connectivity is also needed to communicate this informa- tion to the EV chargers and send receive control commands to from the chargers. Assuming these are available, various optimization problems have been formulated to achieve cer- tain objectives (e.g. minimizing generation cost, losses, and peak load; maximizing capacity utilization and total charging power) while respecting system constraints such as voltage limits and equipment overloading. This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Award No 1755996.A traditional approach is to form an optimal power ﬂow (OPF) problem and deterministically solve it using forecasted generation and demand values to determine the control set- points. Recently, machine learning (ML) has also been used to develop control algorithms that can evolve based on OPF simulations 11 . The idea is to develop local controller rules from a dataset generated by OPF solutions. In general, performing these optimization tasks is challenging since the required system model and inputs are either missing or very hard to obtain completely. In 12 and 13 , data-driven local controllers are proposed by solving an off-line OPF prob- lem using ML regression models. Since these controllers are trained based on a historical dataset, they are vulnerable to novel scenarious as well as instances caused by policy and natural shifts 14 . On the other hand, model-free approaches are generic and not dependant on the OPF model, i.e., system topology and variables. They usually use measurements (voltage, frequency, etc.) or historical data to obtain information regarding the grid s dynamic behavior. In this line of work, we presented a decentralized EV charging solution that uses the local voltage measurements and adapts the Internet s TCP IP protocol for congestion detection 15 . This protocol implements the Addi- tive Increase Multiplicative Decrease (AIMD) algorithm based on local measurements by implicitly detecting the congestion event (CE) without requiring any explicit feedback signal or system knowledge. In the context of distribution grid, the CE corresponds to the overloading of substation transformer feeder that powers the distribution network. Note that the CE can also be triggered when there is a need to shave the peak loading in a demand side load management scenario. Our previous works 15 18 investigated implicit ways of estimating CE in the distribution grid and proposed algorithms that work with only local voltage measurements. However, the previously proposed algorithms can detect a ﬁctitious con- gestion if their parameters are poorly tuned. True congestion detection requires proper tuning of the parameters, which is only possible via heuristics or by simulating the system if topology and load proﬁles are known. Thus, they can primarily operate sub-optimal. For this reason, we developed and pre- sented a data-driven feeder loading estimation method in 19 that only requires historical data, and we veriﬁed the method with real ﬁeld measurements. As a next step, this work further develops and integrates the data-driven loading estimation idea presented in 19 into our AIMD based EV charging algorithm, and implements it in a realistically modeled distribution grid 2022 IEEE Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.arXiv:2205.10328v1 eess.SY 20 May 2022 2 Figure 1: Single feeder, radial distribution grid model. simulation to asses its performance and effectiveness. In this study, we explore how local historical measurement data can be utilized to learn the grid s dynamic status and how AIMD-based EV charging control can operate through this learned behavior. In particular, we propose to learn the relation between local measurements (i.e., voltage and phase) and the substation feeder loading using ML on historical data so that EVs can better estimate when CE occurs by observing their local voltage. Our methodology
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Electrical Engineering, Vol. 4 , No. 14, September 2015 45 Increasing the Efficiency of Photovoltaic Systems by Using Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) Alireza Tofigh Rihani1, Majid Ghandchi2 1Department of Electrical Engineering , Ahar Branch, Islamic Azad University, Ahar , Iran alireza.reahani gmail.com (Corresponding author) 2Department of Engineering, Ahar Branch, Islamic Azad University, Ahar , Iran majid.ghandchi gmail.com Abstract Using Photovoltaic systems is gradually expanded by increasing energy demand. Abundance and availability of this energy, has turned to one of the most important sources of renewable energy. Unfortunately, photovoltaic systems have two big problems: first, those have very low energy conversion efficiency (in act between 12 and 42 percent under certain circumstances). Second, the power produced by the solar cell depends on nonlinear conditions such as solar radiation, temperature and charge feature. A ccording to this, received power maximum of photovoltaic cells depends on different non- linear variables, it is necessary to be continuously traced, as maximum received power of the cell (by controller). In this research, the increasing efficie ncy of photovoltaic systems has been investigated by using Maximum P ower Point Tracking (MPPT) in two different modes contained connected to the Grid and disconnected from the grid with simulation by MATLAB software. The obtained results showed that the proposed technique is able to improve the current, voltage and power output of photovoltaic cells. Keywords : photovoltaic cell, MPPT, renewable energy, production power 1- Introduction Different MPPT algorithms can be categorized into two groups depending on offline and online models implemented. The different m ethods of offline and online have been investigated in 1 . Offline meth ods have been estimated to control signal s based on primary datum and input variables of solar panel such as light intensity, temperature, open circuit voltage , short -circuit , and during operation of the system, the control signal used to control the outpu t power panel. Open circuit voltage method 2 and 3 is one of the simplest methods of offline presented, based on approximately linear relationship between open circuit voltage maximum power voltage in different weather conditions. V kVmpp oc )1( Where K is constant value, smaller than one (between 0.7 and 0.8), and depends on solar panel empirically determined by measuring the quantity and different weather A. Rihani, M. Ghandchi: Increase the efficiency of photovoltaic systems by using maximum power point 46 conditions. In this method, the Approximate amount ofmppV can be measured by using equation 1 and knowing ocVand by setting the output voltage of the solar panel in mppV , the maximum can be received. In this method, we measure ocVvalue by separating the load from solar panel. While the implementation of this method is very simple and cheap but not optimiz ed, and solar panels intermittent cut of load for calculating ocVis the disadvantages of this method. Short -circuit current method 4 use s approximate linear relationship between the short -circuit current scIand the maximum power MPPI (K is between 0.8 and 0.9). MPP scI KI )2( In this method, scIhas been determined and then MPPI value has been calculated by using (2) and totally by adjusting the output current panel of this amount, through which the maximum power has been traced. By determining scI, the solar panels, separated from load and measure the amount of short circuit current by shortening circuit output. This method is more accurate and efficient method of open circuit voltage 4 , but short - circuits current calculation pr oblems and the cost of implementing are the disadvantages of this method. Using neural network is the other method of offline for tracking the maximum power, primarily investigated by Hiyama and et.al 5 . The open circuit voltage of the solar panel is the only neural network input data and by assistance of PI contro,ller obtained control signal is required for MPPT. In online method, usually instantaneous values of variables of solar panel (voltage and current) , are used to generate control signals . As a result, control signals of these methods, unlike the offline method, are not constant and steady state oscillated around its optimal value. Perturbation and Observation method (P O) 7 and 8 , ripples convergent control method (RCC) 11 and increasing impedance method (Inc Cond) 9 including online methods are the maximum power point tracking and using output voltage and current of solar panels produce appropriate control signals. Fig.1 . The equivalent circuit of a solar panel 15 2- Photovoltaic S ystem Photovoltaic system consists of solar panel, battery, DC -DC voltage convertor and controller. Photovoltaic system s act like a real power supply and have a fixed voltage level of the battery used in various loads. In figure 4 , battery of voltage, converter output voltage DC -DC ()LVholds constant value. Battery power is also needed for the storage and recovery point. DC-DC voltage convertors are used to match the load characteristics with characteristic of solar panels 17 . DC -DC voltage convertors are classified into three groups of: Boost, Buck Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Electrical Engineering, Vol. 4 , No. 14, September 2015 47 and Buck -Boost convertors 18 . Selecting the type of DC -DC voltage converter depends on the level of voltage changes. In this research, DC -DC increased voltage conv erter using accommodating load with solar panels. 1 1VL VDPV )3( () 1 V DVPV L )4( :if V V D DPV MPP MPP )5( The above equations show that by changing, the operating point of the solar panel D value could be varied , and due to the uniqueness ofMPPV , there is a unique value for that point in MPP puts solar panel work. Photovoltaic system will be optimized when it has the most efficiency that solar panels can produce at any time, which is the maximum amount of the work done in MPP. By changing the switching period (D), the characteristic time for changes to D will improve the visibility of solar panels. The
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Graphical Abstract Multi-model assessment of heat decarbonisation options in the UK using electricity and hydrogen Marko Aunedi, Maria Yliruka, Shahab Dehghan, Antonio Marco Pantaleo, Nilay Shah, Goran Strbac RTN WeSIM Decarbonised end -use heat: electricity vs. H2 Production, transport and storage capacities for H2and CO2Portfolio of low -carbon power generation and storage Hourly wholesale electricity pricesModel 1 Model 2 arXiv:2206.02483v1 eess.SY 6 Jun 2022 Highlights Multi-model assessment of heat decarbonisation options in the UK using electricity and hydrogen Marko Aunedi, Maria Yliruka, Shahab Dehghan, Antonio Marco Pantaleo, Nilay Shah, Goran Strbac A multi-model approach is proposed to link two established energy system models. Iterating between the two models focused on low-carbon heat and elec- tricity sectors. Various technologies are considered for electricity and heat decarbonisa- tion. Contributions of hydrogen and electricity to heat supply are assessed until 2050. Evolution of the cost-e ective portfolio of hydrogen sources is charac- terised. Multi-model assessment of heat decarbonisation options in the UK using electricity and hydrogen Marko Aunedia, , Maria Ylirukaa, , Shahab Dehghana, , Antonio Marco Pantaleoa,b, Nilay Shaha, Goran Strbaca aImperial College London, South Kensington Campus, London, SW7 2AZ, UK bUniversity of Bari Aldo Moro, Piazza Umberto I 1, Bari, 70121, Italy Abstract Delivering low-carbon heat will require the substitution of natural gas with low- carbon alternatives such as electricity and hydrogen. The objective of this paper is to develop a method to soft-link two advanced, investment-optimising en- ergy system models, RTN (Resource-Technology Network) and WeSIM (Whole- electricity System Investment Model), in order to assess cost-e cient heat de- carbonisation pathways for the UK while utilising the respective strengths of the two models. The linking procedure included passing on hourly electricity prices from WeSIM as input to RTN, and returning capacities and locations of hydro- gen generation and shares of electricity and hydrogen in heat supply from RTN to WeSIM. The outputs demonstrate that soft-linking can improve the quality of the solution, while providing useful insights into the cost-e cient pathways for zero-carbon heating. Quantitative results point to the cost-e ectiveness of using a mix of electricity and hydrogen technologies for delivering zero-carbon heat, also demonstrating a high level of interaction between electricity and hydrogen infrastructure in a zero-carbon system. Hydrogen from gas reforming with car- bon capture and storage can play a signi cant role in the medium term, while remaining a cost-e cient option for supplying peak heat demand in the longer term, with the bulk of heat demand being supplied by electric heat pumps. Keywords: Heat Decarbonisation, Hydrogen, Renewable Energy, Heat Marko Aunedi, Maria Yliruka, and Shahab Dehghan contributed equally to this work. Preprint submitted to Renewable Energy June 7, 2022 Pumps, Hydrogen Storage, Multi-model Assessment. List of abbreviations ASHP Air Source Heat Pump ATR Autothermal Reformer CCGT Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine CCS Carbon Capture and Storage COP Coe cient of Performance DHN District Heat Network DSR Demand-Side Response FES Future Energy Scenarios GB Great Britain GHR Gas-Heated Reformer HP Heat Pump LOLE Loss of Load Expectation LP Linear Programming MILP Mixed-Integer Linear Programming NPV Net Present Value OCGT Open-Cycle Gas Turbine PV Photovoltaics PEM Proton-Exchange Membrane RES Renewable Energy Sources RTN Resource-Technology Network SMR Steam Methane Reformer SOE Solid Oxide Electrolyser UK United Kingdom WeSIM Whole-electricity System Investment Model 1. Introduction This section outlines the motivation and background for the analysis pre- sented in the paper, presenting the review of relevant literature. It also high- 2 lights the key contributions of the paper and lays out its structure. 1.1. Motivation and Background A wide-ranging transformation is required in energy systems around the world over the next three decades to meet the ambitious targets set for decar- bonisation 1, 2 . In 2019, the United Kingdom became the rst major economy in the world to adopt a law aimed at bringing the greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2050 3 . The UK s heat sector, predominantly supplied by natural gas at present, accounts for a third of the total carbon emissions 4, 5 . Likely pathways for heat decarbonisation as the most challenging energy sec- tor to meet the net-zero target involve substituting fossil fuels with low-carbon energy vectors, electricity and hydrogen, produced from renewable or other forms of zero-carbon energy 6 . Renewable energy systems have recently expe- rienced signi cant progress with respect to technological development, resource assessment, cost reduction and system design 7 . Speci c recent advances in RES reported in the literature include hybridisation and cross-sector integra- tion 8 as well as building-integrated systems and novel resource assessment approaches 9 . The UK Government s Net Zero Strategy 10 set the ambition that by 2035 all new heating appliances installed in homes and workplaces will be low-carbon technologies, like electric heat pumps or hydrogen boilers. At the same time, the Strategy also envisages a full decarbonisation of electricity supply by 2035 and 5 GW of low-carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030. At present, only about 1 of the UK s 28 million homes are heated by heat pumps (HPs). The UK Government s Ten Point Plan for Green Industrial Revolution 11 set the objective of installing 600,000 HPs per year in the period 2021-2028. Long-term projections for the UK energy system generally envisage a very high future penetration of HP systems; for instance, one of National Grid s Future Energy Scenarios 12 (Consumer Transformation) projects up to 26.2 million HP systems (including hybrids) in the UK by 2050, which is equivalent to almost every household in the UK having a HP system installed. 3 Achieving the UK s long-term climate targets cost-e ectively requires a co- ordinated approach to decarbonise both heat and electricity supply 13, 14 . Previous research has demonstrated that heating and electricity systems can bene t signi cantly from mutual synergies on their pathways towards decar- bonisation, by unlocking opportunities for cross-vector exibility to support the integration of low-carbon generation technologies and to signi cantly reduce the cost of decarbonisation 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 .
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	1 Spin photovoltaic cell Federico Bottegoni,1 Michele Celebrano,1 Monica Bollani,2 Paolo Biagioni,1 Giovanni Isella,1 Franco Ciccacci,1 and Marco Finazzi1 1 LNESS -Dipartimento di Fisica , Politecnico di Milano , Piazza Leonardo da Vinci 32 , 20133 Milano , Italy. 2 CNR-IFN and LNESS , via Anzani 42 , 22100 Como , Italy. e-mail federico.bottegoni polimi.it Spintronics, which aims at exploiting the spin degree of freedom of carriers inside electronic devices, has a huge potential for quantum computation and dissipationless interconnects. Ideally, spin currents in spintronic devices should be powered by a spin voltage generator able to drive spins out of equilibrium and produce two spatially well -separated populations with opposite spin orientation . Such a g enerator should work at room temperature, be highly integrable with existing semiconductor technology, and work with neither ferromagnetic materials nor externally applied magnetic fields. We have matched these requirements by realizing the spintronic equi valent of a photovoltaic cell. While the latter spatially separates photoexcited electron and hole charges, our device exploits circularly polarized light to produce two spatially well -defined electron populations with opposite spin. This is achieved by mo dulating the phase and amplitude of the light wavefr onts entering a semiconductor (g ermanium ) with a pattern ed metal overlayer (platinum ). This allows creat ing a light diffraction pattern with spatially -modulated chirality inside the semiconductor , which locally excite s spin-polarized electron s thanks to electric dipole selection rules. 2 The integration of spintronics and photonics represents one of the most challenging tasks in modern optoelectronics 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . In this context germanium plays a key role, due to the large spin orbit coupling and electron spin lifetime 5 , 6 , simple integrability with Si -based electronic platforms, and optical properties matching the conventional telecommunication window 7 , 8 .In the process known as optical orientation 2 , dipole selection rules , for direct optical transitions with circularly polarized light , allow the excitation of an electron population in the Ge conduction band with a spin polarization P (n n ) (n n ) up to 50 9 , 10 , where n ( ) are the up (down) spin densities (as referred to a proper quantization axis) . An advantage of optical orientation is that neither ferromagnetic materials nor externally applied magnetic field s are needed to obtain spin -polarized electrons. However, the exploitation of optical orientation to excite spatially separated carriers with opposite spin and create spin accumulation in spintronic devices would require the spatial tuning of the light circular polarization over the device, a contrivance that, up to no w, has not been deemed viable. Moreover, most spintronic devices require a carrier spin polarization in the plane of the device 11 , which can be achieved by optical orientation only with grazing incidence illumination. We solve these problems by spatially modulating the phase and amplitude of the electromagnetic wave -fronts impinging at normal incidence on the semiconductor sample by patterning a thin overlayer deposited onto the semiconductor surface. This method allows creat ing a field distribution inside the semiconductor with spatially -engineered chirality with respect to an in-plane quantization axis y, i.e. in the direction perpendicular to the wave vector of the illuminating light . This is associated to the Stokes parameter cy 2Im( ExEz ) 12 being Ex and Ez the (complex) components of the electric field along the x and z axes forming with y a Cartesian reference system where z is perpendicular to the semiconductor surface. The simplest configuration consists of a nonmagnetic metal stripe deposited on the semiconductor surface . Figure 1a presents a pictorial scheme of the structure and the simulated cy parameter when the stripe is illuminated at normal incidence with a circularly -polarized plane wave and a photon energy at the semiconductor direct band gap (Ed 0.8 eV for Ge at room temperature). The scattering by the stripe creates a local field with a cy 3 distribution (see Fig. 1a) that simultaneously excites two spatially separated populations of spin - oriented electrons with opposite spin projections in the sample plane ; a similar spatial modulation can be retrieved considering the cx 2Im( EyEz ) parameter . This effect does not depend on the particular choice of the semiconductor patterning material combination, but rather on the geometry of the patterning and on the dipole selection rules for the semiconductor. Notably, this concept can be confine d to sub -micrometer scales (see below) and extended to a wide range of architectures and different semiconductor patter ning material combinations. Moreover, the generation of the two opposite spin densities is not limited by the spin diffusion length of th e electrons along the chosen quantization axis, as it happens for electrically -induced edge spin accumulation 13 : in the proposed device, the spatial scale of the two generation profiles in the semiconductor is only driven by the geometry of the patterning . The device proposed in Fig. 1a has been realiz ed by uniformly evaporating a 4 nm-thick Pt layer on top of an As -doped Ge substrate (5 5 mm2, Nd 2 1016 cm-3). A set of Pt stripes (length 20 µm, height 20 nm, width 2 µm, separated by 3.6 µm) has been obtained by electron beam lithography followed by a second evaporation step . Circularly polarized light ( hν 0.8 eV, resonant with the direct Ge bandgap) excites spin -polarized electron -hole pairs at the Γ point of the Ge Brillouin zone with a generation rate that is proportional to cy. The spin -oriented photo -excited electrons lie at the bottom of the conduction band at Γ. Within 300 fs they are scattered to the L minima, partially maintaining the initial spin orientation 6 . Since the electron spin lifetime in bulk Ge is in the nanoseconds range 5 , whereas the hole spin lifetime is much shorter (few hundreds of femtoseconds 14 ), the spatially modulated spin density can be assumed to be
__label__energy	1 Distributed Energy Resources Cybersecurity Outlook: Vulnerabilities, Attacks, Impacts, and Mitigations Ioannis Zografopoulos, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Nikos D. Hatziargyriou, Life Fellow, IEEE , Charalambos Konstantinou, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The digitization and decentralization of the electric power grid are key thrusts for an economically and envi- ronmentally sustainable future. Towards this goal, distributed energy resources (DER), including rooftop solar panels, battery storage, electric vehicles, etc., are becoming ubiquitous in power systems. Power utilities benefit from DERs as they minimize operational costs; at the same time, DERs grant users and aggregators control over the power they produce and consume. DERs are interconnected, interoperable, and support remotely controllable features, thus, their cybersecurity is of cardinal importance. DER communication dependencies and the diversity of DER architectures widen the threat surface and aggravate the cybersecurity posture of power systems. In this work, we focus on security oversights that reside in the cyber and physical layers of DERs and can jeopardize grid operations. Existing works have underlined the impact of cyberattacks targeting DER assets, however, they either focus on specific system components (e.g., communication protocols), do not consider the mission- critical objectives of DERs, or neglect the adversarial perspec- tive (e.g., adversary attack models) altogether. To address these omissions, we comprehensively analyze adversarial capabilities and objectives when manipulating DER assets, and then present how protocol and device-level vulnerabilities can materialize into cyberattacks impacting power system operations. Finally, we provide mitigation strategies to thwart adversaries and directions for future DER cybersecurity research. Index Terms Attacks, cybersecurity, distributed energy re- sources (DERs), mitigations. I. I NTRODUCTION In the last decades, electric power systems (EPS) have undergone significant transformations (e.g., decentralized gen- eration, digitization of customer services, smart grid initia- tives, etc.) to meet the increasing power demand and provide economically and environmentally friendly energy. Renewable energy resources (RES) harnessing wind, solar, and thermal energy have been used to improve energy efficiency while meeting stringent carbon emission regulations 1 . The shift towards more sustainable grid architectures has also boosted the adoption of distributed energy resources (DER). According to the definition of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), DERs are distribution-level resources that produce electricity and are not part of the bulk EPS 2 . DERs can leverage renewable or non-renewable resources. DER devices are classified into different categories based on their operation principles, e.g., generation, energy storage, Manuscript accepted in IEEE Systems Journal. Ioannis Zografopoulos is with the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia (e-mail: zografop gmail.com). Nikos D. Hatziargyriou is with the National Technical University of Athens, 10682 Athens, Greece, and the University of Vaasa, 65200 Vaasa, Finland. Charalambos Konstantinou is with the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia.combination of the two, or controllable loads. Solar panels and wind turbines belong to the generation category 3 , batteries and electric vehicles (EVs) fall into energy storage, combined cooling and heating, and electric water heaters are examples of controllable loads 4 , and inverter-based resources (IBR) can be used in both generation and storage scenarios. The rapid integration of DERs highlights their importance for EPS and the global generation capacity is expected to grow from 132.4 GW in 2017 to 528.4 GW by 2026 5 . Similar observations can be made for battery energy storage systems (BESS). Namely, in the United States (U.S.), BESS are expected to grow from 1.2 GW in 2020 to nearly 7.5 GW in 2025, while developing into a market of 7.3 billion annually 6 . Strategic placement of DERs, can utilize on-site genera- tion and minimize utility costs by deferring investments for the expansion of the power system network. DER-generated power does not need to be transferred from remote bulk generation fa- cilities, minimizing energy losses and providing economically dispatchable power. DERs could reduce transmission system operator (TSO) ancillary market costs, which increased by al- most 70 during the 2020 COVID-19 lockdown 7 . This was due to the stochasticity of real-time power demand and the re- quirement to maintain frequency stability and energy reserves, mainly relying on the intermittent generation of RES, which created a very competitive power market. DERs can enhance EPS reliability through DER-supported autonomous functions. With higher DER penetration, the consequences of disastrous events could be averted or effectively mitigated 8 . For instance, DERs could alleviate the impacts of extreme weather events similar to the Texas snowstorm in February 2021 9 . The flexible and autonomous attributes of DERs render them invaluable pillars for the EPS critical infrastructure (CI). Being crucial parts of the EPS, DERs can become prominent cyberattack targets. Attackers could exploit vulnerabilities, i.e., weaknesses in a system that can be leveraged to carry out an attack, to compromise remote communication, gain control of DERs, and propagate attack impacts to the rest of the system. The cybersecurity incident in Utah, U.S. on 5 March 2019 is a prime example of how compromised communications can affect grid services. In this incident, attackers exploited vulner- abilities in security firewall devices to halt communications be- tween system operators and distribution wind and solar utilities 10 . The impact of this denial-of-service (DoS) attack caused loss of visibility of power grid assets and could have caused interruptions of electrical system operations 11 . To overcome cyberattacks comprehensive security investigations should be performed taking into account the cyber-physical DER nature. On the cyber level, protocols facilitate the communication between DERs and utility aggregators for DER monitoringarXiv:2205.11171v4 cs.CR 2 Oct 2023 2 Fig. 1: Utility-to-DER interconnection. TABLE I: Common DER communication protocols. Protocol Description Std. IEEE 1815 DNP3Interoperable communication framework for secure information exchange in industrial systems (e.g., SCADA) 12 Sunspec ModbusModbus protocol extension for DER parameters (e.g., power, voltage) and ancillary services monitoring and control 13 OpenADREnergy market management standard regulating demand-response via signals to DERs and other controllable devices 14 IEEE 2030.5Smart energy profile application standard and default protocol for DER management 15 and control purposes (Fig. 1). Information and communica- tion technologies (ICT) enable communication
__label__energy	Modeling 100 Electriﬁed Transportation in NYC 1stJingrong Zhang, 2ndAmber Jiang, 3rdBrian Newborn, 4thSara Kou New York University, Center for Urban Science and Progress, New York City, USA5thRobert Mieth Princeton University, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Princeton, USA Abstract Envisioning a future 100 electriﬁed transportation sector, this paper uses socio-economic, demographic, and geo- graphic data to assess electric energy demand from commuter trafﬁc. We explore the individual mode choices, which allows to create mode-mix scenarios for the entire population, and quantify the electric energy demand for each scenario using technical speciﬁcations of battery and electric drives technology in combination with different charging scenarios. Using data sets for New York City, our results highlight the need for infrastructure investments, the usefulness of ﬂexible charging policies, and the positive impact of incentivizing micromobility and mass-transit options. Our model and results are publicly available as interactive dashboard. I. I NTRODUCTION Over one quarter of the US greenhouse gas emissions can be traced back to transportation 1 . Decarbonizing this sector will impact private households most directly, as drivers must invest in new electric vehicles and adapt their fueling (charging) routines. Some citizens may instead switch to mass transit or emerging electric micro-mobility such as electric bikes. The exact mode-mixture in a future electriﬁed transportation sector will depend on numerous factors such as availability, personal cost, infrastructure safety, and capacity, leaving signiﬁcant room for inﬂuence from policy-makers and businesses 2 4 . Clearly, due to the varying technical characteristics of different modes of transportation, e.g., battery size, energy efﬁciency, and charging requirements, the resulting mode- mix will substantially inﬂuence the impact of an electriﬁed transportation sector on the power system. Yet, comprehensive studies of future charging demands in the context of mode choices are lacking. This paper proposes a model to quantify mode-mixtures and charging demands as a function of socio- economic data, geographical information, and state-of-the-art electric mobility speciﬁcations. Studying the case of New York City, USA, we generate an open-source dynamic data set and interactive dashboard to support planning and policy decisions. The New York State Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act mandates a net-zero carbon economy by 2050 5 , implying the abatement of fossil-fueled transportation modes in conjunction with renewable energy generation 6 . Further, New York State recently passed legislation banning the sale of all gasoline-powered passenger cars and light duty trucks by 2035 7 . With this upcoming ban and ambitious decarbonization goals, New York policy makers are confronted with a signiﬁcant challenge of understanding the infrastructure needs of this transition. With the faded relevance of potential hydrogen-powered vehicles 8 a primary concern is the ability of the electric power system to serve the increased demandcaused battery-electric vehicle charging facilities 9 11 as the share of electricity demand from the transportation sector is expected to rise from 0.2 to 15 30 in the next few decades 12 . While the bulk power system may be able to accommodate this transition, local bottlenecks in dense urban areas and limited distribution system capacity can create barriers for transportation electriﬁcation 13 . To identify such barriers and inform necessary infrastructure investments, esti- mates of transportation-induced electricity demand is needed. Numerous studies, such as 9 , 14 and references therein, aim to predict future charging patterns with a focus on local distribution systems or speciﬁc charging stations from current car trafﬁc data and contextual information such as weekday or weather. Economy-wide assessments of an electriﬁed trans- portation sector use demographic and socio-economic data into account to estimate energy demands and charging patterns 12 . For example, 14 estimates peak demands of around 300 MW per 1 TWh of yearly energy consumption in Europe. The studies in 9 14 focus primarily on current car trafﬁc and projected demands from battery-electric vehicles with the same travel patterns. However, trafﬁc demand manage- ment and available infrastructure signiﬁcantly inﬂuence mode choices and, thus, electricity demand patterns. For example, a major driver for the dissemination of electric cars is the access to charging infrastructure 4 , 15 . Micro-mobility (e.g., bicycles) and mass-transit options, on the other hand, are preferred when their infrastructure is perceived as be- ing sufﬁciently accessible and safe 2 and can be directly incentivized through public or employer-issued beneﬁts 3 . However, to our knowledge, no previous study simultaneously assesses mode-choice and future charging demands. This paper ﬁlls this gap using demographic and socio- economic data from Manhattan, New York, a major urban center that has traditionally relied on transportation modes beyond individual passenger vehicles (e.g., subway, bicycles). We focus on modeling individual commutes (i.e., regular travel to and from work), given its importance for overall trafﬁc 3 , and also consider new work-from-home trends. This work uses real-world census data and data from current and emerging electric mobility technology to quantify the transition towards an all-electric transportation sector with regard to power system capacity and individual mode choices. Alongside this paper we publish an interactive visualization dashboard ( tecnyc.herokuapp.com ), which offers detailed insights for policy- and decision-makers to understand the impact of transportation electriﬁcation in New York City.arXiv:2211.11581v3 cs.CY 17 Feb 2023 DEMOGRAPHICAgeSexRaceEducationLIVE WORKIncomeIndustryUsualhoursworkedperweekPlaceofresidencePlaceofworkCurrent commute modeTimeofarrivalatworkOwnership of dwellingDISABILITYPerson-LevelData (d)CommutingScenarioCreationCommuteModesSubwayCommuterrailBusFerryAutosBikeScootersWorkfromhomeMotorcycleWalkNY X Use weight tocontrolindividuals preferenceandsimulatetheimpactofcertainpolicy thelikelihoodofchoosingcertainmodeDetermine individuals eligibility to use a certain modebasedonitsconstraints 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 3 8 4Socio-EconomicInformation(a)CommuteDataCollection(b)Eligibility Model(c)Weight Assignment ModelFig. 1. Commuter model: (a)commute data collection, (b)eligibility model, (c)weight assignment model, (d)commuting scenario creation. II. C OMMUTER MODEL We model the individual mode choices and the resulting aggregate commute scenarios as depicted in Fig. 1. The model is composed of four parts: (a)commute data collection, (b)eligibility model, (c)weight assignment model, and (d) scenario creation. Sections II-A to II-D below provide details. A. Commute Data Collection Individuals commutes and demographics are obtained from the 2019 American Community Survey (ACS) 16 via the IPUMS USA 17 online database. The raw data includes demographic information regarding age, gender, race, and education level, residential and work information including income, industry of occupation, usual hours worked per week, place of residence,
__label__energy	TO APPEAR IN THE IEEE PES GENERAL MEETING 2024, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, JULY 2024 1 ODE T RANSFORMATIONS OF NONLINEAR DAE P OWER SYSTEMS Mohamad H. Kazma, Graduate Student Member, IEEE and Ahmad F. Taha ,Member, IEEE Abstract Dynamic power system models are instrumental in real-time stability, monitoring, and control. Such models are traditionally posed as systems of nonlinear differential alge- braic equations (DAEs): the dynamical part models generator transients and the algebraic one captures network power flow. While the literature on control and monitoring for ordinary differential equation (ODE) models of power systems is indeed rich, that on DAE systems is not. DAE system theory is less understood in the context of power system dynamics. To that end, this paper presents two new mathematical transformations for nonlinear DAE models that yield nonlinear ODE models while retaining the complete nonlinear DAE structure and algebraic variables. Such transformations make (more accurate) power system DAE models more amenable to a host of control and state estimation algorithms designed for ODE dynamical systems. We showcase that the proposed models are effective, simple, and computationally scalable. Index Terms Time-domain simulation, transient stability analysis, nonlinear descriptor models, power systems. I. I NTRODUCTION POWER systems monitoring, state estimation, control, and transient stability analysis are all reliant on high-fidelity models of multi-machine power systems. In power grids, transient stability analysis determines how the power sys- tem maintains synchronicity under time-varying conditions and large uncertainties from load disturbances 1 , 2 . Such analysis relies on time-domain simulations of the system that is expressed as a set of differential algebraic equations (DAEs) 3 , 4 . The differential-algebraic nature couples the system dynamics with power flow constraints, thus resulting in a more accurate model. Nonlinear DAEs are an extreme case of stiff dynamical systems 5 , meaning that the system has time constants that span several orders of magnitude; in particular, the algebraic constraints exhibit null time constants. In general, nonlinear DAEs are solved using implicit dis- cretization schemes 6 . Multi-step methods offer stable and efficient schemes when dealing with nonlinear DAEs 7 . Such discrete-time modeling methods include: backward differential formulas (BDF) 8 , 9 , backward Euler (BE) method 9 , and trapezoidal implicit (TI) method 9 , 10 . Simulating discrete- time models requires an integrative time-step algorithm 11 , Corresponding author. This work is supported by National Science Foundation under Grants 2152450 and 2151571. The authors are with the Civil Environmental Engineering and Electrical Computer Engineering Departments, Vanderbilt University, 2201 West End Ave, Nashville, Tennessee 37235. Emails: mohamad.h.kazma vanderbilt.edu, ah- mad.taha vanderbilt.edu. The discrepancy between this version of the paper and the PES General Meeting 2024 version (available on IEEE Explore) is due to the imposed page limit for all conference papers. This version includes additional comments as well as an easier paper layout for better readability.and the solvability of power system DAEs under implicit integration methods is well-established. The Newton-Raphson (NR) method 9 , 12 is generally implemented within power system simulation packages to solve discretized DAEs 13 . Despite such well-developed time-domain numerical solutions, from a systems theory perspective, the literature on nonlinear DAE power networks is limited unlike that of ordinary differential equations (ODE models) 14 . Common modeling for systems control and estimation is based on an ODE formulation; this is due to the aforemen- tioned limitation on system theory for DAEs. Typically, the formulation of ODE systems from DAE models is performed by either neglecting the algebraic constraints or by formulating a decoupled modeling approach 15 . The simplified models potentially limit the transient stability simulations and, ulti- mately, the estimation and control performance. Time-domain simulations resulting from the full DAE models of a power network can, for instance, give an accurate depiction of the dynamics under topological changes triggered by faults and be modeled to include uncertain loads from renewable energy resources. The limitation on model fidelity from a control and esti- mation perspective is expressed in the form of the following research question: How do we extend existing systems control theory, developed for ODE dynamical systems, to accurately apply it to DAE models? Descriptor systems arising from DAEs models appear in numerous applications, with a few examples being chemical, electrical and mechanical systems. For such reason, there is a rise in interest towards translating control and stability theory to the analysis of descriptor systems 16 . Recent studies see, 15 20 and reference therein present literature on developing the state estimation and con- trol theory of DAE systems, in particular that of linear DAEs. However, in this paper, we aim to address the limitations on state estimation, control, and transient stability analysis of power systems by giving a new perspective on DAE to ODE system modeling. Therefore, we instead attempt to address the posed research question in the form of: Is there a methodology to accurately restructure the DAE system into an ODE model without loss of information and therefore exploit existing ODE systems control theoretic? To that end, in this paper we introduce two simple yet effective methods to transform nonlinear DAE power system models into ODEs. The idea is to formulate ODE-structured representations of the network dynamics while depicting the full nonlinear DAE structure along with the algebraic con- straints. These transformations allow the utilization of the rich literature on control and estimation of ODE models of powerarXiv:2306.17658v3 eess.SY 31 Jan 2024 TO APPEAR IN THE IEEE PES GENERAL MEETING 2024, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, JULY 2024 2 systems.The main contributions of this paper are: We present two mathematical transformations that retain the complete nonlinear DAE dynamics while achieving a nonlinear ODE-structure. The first transformation is based on applying the implicit function theorem (IFT) to reformulate the algebraic constraints into an ODE model (Section II-A). The second transformation is approximation-based; it yields an effective approxima- tion towards ODE-structured algebraic constraints (Sec- tion II-B). We show that it is viable to model and perform both continuous and discrete time-domain simulations for tran- sient stability analysis on the proposed
__label__energy	Electrical generation and propagation of spin waves in antiferromagnetic thin- lm nanostrips Xinyi Xu,1Yuriy G. Semenov,1and Ki Wook Kim1, 2, 1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA 2Department of Physics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA Abstract Electrical generation of THz spin waves is theoretically explored in an antiferromangetic nanos- trip via the current-induced spin-orbit torque. The analysis based on micromagnetic simulations clearly illustrates that the N eel-vector oscillations excited at one end of the magnetic strip can propagate in the form of a traveling wave when the nanostrip axis aligns with the magnetic easy- axis. A sizable threshold is observed in the driving current density or the torque to overcome the unfavorable anisotropy as expected. The generated spin waves are found to travel over a long dis- tance while the angle of rotation undergoes continuous decay in the presence of non-zero damping. The oscillation frequency is tunable via the strength of the spin-orbit torque, reaching the THz regime. Other key characteristics of the spin waves such as the phase and the chirality can also be modulated actively. The simulation results further indicate the possibility of wave-like super- position between the excited spin oscillations, illustrating its application as an e cient source of spin-wave signals for information processing. kwk ncsu.edu 1arXiv:1903.04068v2 cond-mat.mes-hall 13 Jun 2019 The magnetization uctuations in the magnetically ordered materials can propagate in the form of a wave, which is the so-called spin wave. From the equivalent quasi-particle point of view, the quanta of spin waves are known as magnons. The spin waves can carry information without involving the charge current ow and, thus, potentially o er an e ec- tive medium for low-power computing technologies. 1, 2 A majority of the investigation on the spin waves and their applications have so far been focused on the ferromagnetic (FM) structures. Accordingly, the typical characteristic frequencies of the magnonic devices have been in the GHz range due to the limitation in the intrinsic FM resonance. Recently, the antiferromagnetic (AFM) materials have begun to receive much attention as an alternative for they can in principle exhibit a similar spintronic e ect with a much higher response fre- quency and energy e ciency. 3, 4 Not only the wave frequency de nes the maximum clock rate of a computing device but also a host of other applications beyond the logic memory realm become accessible once the spin wave reaches the THz regime. The presence of two degenerate modes with opposite circular polarizations in the AFM spin waves o ers yet an- other degree of freedom to encode the information. 5 7 The fact that the AFM thin lms are not subject to the demagnetization eld also makes them a promising candidate for the spin-wave channel as the collective excitations can remain stable over a longer distance. The relative abundance of dielectric antiferromagnets provides an additional exibility in selecting the materials with desired properties. The spin-wave excitation has been achieved optically, 8 thermally, 9 and via electri- cal methods utilizing the antennas. In the latter (which is the most commonly adopted approach), the electromagnetic signal applied to a microwave antenna excites magnetiza- tion precession in the magnetic material via an alternating Oersted eld induced around the antenna. 10 13 As such, an external microwave source is needed for this scheme, not to mention the lack of electrical tunability. In contrast, a promising alternative approach demonstrated recently 15 took advantage of the magnetization auto-oscillations induced by the spin-transfer torque a topic of intense investigation since its introduction 14 and guided their propagation along a FM strip. Since persistent rotations of the N eel vectors can be excited likewise in the AFM structures via the e ective spin torques as shown ex- perimentally in the literature, 16 it is not unreasonable to anticipate the generation and subsequent propagation of traveling AFM spin waves in a thin- lm strip through electrically controlled mechanisms. The approach based on the spin-orbit torque (SOT) is particularly 2 attractive as it can be applied to the broadly available insulating AFM materials. 4 The studies on the AFM spin-Hall oscillators (i.e., driven by the SOT) have mainly con- sidered the magnetic materials with easy-plane anisotropy, in which the easy plane is aligned normal to the polarization of the induced spin-Hall current. 17 As there is no anisotropy to overcome, the N eel-vector precessions with 90 axial tilt (i.e., right-angle oscillations) can be excited without the threshold. 17, 18 In other words, even a low driving torque (or the current) can generate the spin oscillations. However, it was found from a theoretical analysis that this con guration is actually not conducive to the traveling waves. 19 When the AFM layer is extended into a long nanostrip waveguide along the axis of rotation, the Gilbert damping progressively reduces the rotation frequency at the wave front, limiting the number of allowed spiral oscillations away from the excitation point. The precessions around the hard axis are clearly not the characteristic magnon modes of the AFM material. Thus, a di erent con guration may be needed for the spin excitations that can subsequently travel a long distance once generated. Note that spin transport studied in context of super- uidity 20 22 is di erent from those excited by the e ective spin torques. Spin super uid appears in the material with a spectrum of elementary excitations that can transfer spin accumulation. Thus, super uidity is attributed to the group of magnetic materials with a speci c symmetry. By contrast, application of a spin torque creates a magnetic texture that locally breaks the symmetry of the magnetic ordering. In addition, the torque-inducing spin current for the latter is usually applied normal to the intended direction of spin oscillation propagation (e.g., zvs.x), whereas the spin current injection in the case of super uidic transport is aligned along the channel axis. In this work, we theoretically demonstrate that electrical generation and propagation of N eel-vector oscillations can be
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	1 Generation planning and operation under power stability constraints: A Hydro-Quebec use case Alexandre Besner, Alexandre Blondin Mass e, Abderrahman Bani, Mouad Morabit, Franc ois Berthaut, Luc Charest, David Ialongo, Yves Mbeutcha, Simon Couture-Gagnon, and Julien Fournier Abstract Hydro-Quebec (HQ) is a vertically integrated utility that produces, transmits, and distributes most of the electricity in the province of Quebec. The power grid it operates has a particular architecture created by large hydroelectric dams located far north and the extensive 735kV transmission grid that allows the generated power to reach the majority of the load located thousands of kilometers away in the southern region of Quebec. The specificity of the grid has led HQ to develop monitoring tools responsible for generating so-called stability limits. Those stability limits take into account several nonlinear phenomena such as angular stability, frequency stability, or voltage stability. Since generation planning and operation tools rely mostly on mixed integer linear programming formulation, HQ had to adapt its tools to integrate stability limits into them. This paper presents the challenges it faced, especially considering its reserve monitoring tool and unit commitment tool. Index Terms Generation planning and operation, Unit com- mitment, Reserve monitoring, Transient stability. I. I NTRODUCTION Generation planning and operation are generally associated with canonical problems, such as the unit commitment (UC) problem and the optimal power flow (OPF) problem. The UC can be formulated as a mixed integer and linear programming problem (MILP) 1 . To achieve a MILP formulation, the power flow constraints are often relaxed and validated a pos- teriori using simulation. For instance, Bender cuts can be gen- erated if the simulation detects power flow violation in normal or post-contingency operation. Similar security-constrained UC (SCUC) algorithms are used by system operators like ERCOT 2 or NYISO 3 to balance their grid. Unfortunately, this SCUC formulation cannot be adapted to Hydro-Quebec s grid, since it is primarily constrained by power system stability issues instead of line thermal ratings. The computation power required to simulate power system stability phenomena is too intensive to generate cuts on demand for a MILP formula- tion 4 . Moreover, the SCUC formulation is normally defined for thermal generation models. To represent a grid whose gen- erators are mainly hydroelectric, specific models are needed. Hydro unit commitment (HUC) requires detailed modeling of the rivers network, reservoirs size and generator characteristics based on water level 5 . Generator characteristics are often nonlinear and rely on linear approximation to be included A. Besner, A. Blondin Mass e, A. Bani, and M. Morabit are with the Hydro-Quebec Research Institute (IREQ), Varennes, QC J3X 1S1, Canada (e-mail:besner.alexandre hydroquebec.com). F. Berthaut, L. Charest, D. Ialongo, Y . A. Mbeutcha, S. Couture Gagnon and J. Fournier are with the Hydro-Quebec Operation and Planning Department, Montreal, QC H3A 3S7, Canada.in a MILP framework. Some linearization approaches have been proposed 6 . While interesting, they do not address the complexity of cascading hydro plants. This paper describes how Hydro-Quebec models hydroelectric plants to account for both dynamic characteristics of generators and complex cascading river models. Kundur et al. list of different power stability phenomena ingrouped in three groups: rotor angle stability, frequency stability, and voltage stability 7 . The latter two can be further divided into subcategories according to short-term or long-term phenomena. Hydro-Quebec s grid is concerned with all three types of stability. However, when looking at the literature about transient stability constrained unit commitment (TSCUC), only one category is usually taken into consid- eration. For example, Ahmadi and Ghasemi consider a fre- quency stability-constrained version of the problem 8 . They transform the nonlinear frequency constraints into min-max constraints and subobjectives, then solve the problem using a MILP solver. However, linearization other stability phenomena is not covered. Jiang, Zhou and Zhang address the rotor angle stability issue by proposing a TSCUC variant of the prob- lem 9 , using a parallelized augmented Lagrangian method to decompose the problem into multiple transient stability- constrained optimal power flows (TSCOPF). Nevertheless, they report long computation timesas it takes several hours to solve a TSCUC for a 300-bus system. This computation time is unacceptable in a real-time operation context. Furthermore, their algorithm only considers one contingency. Instead of identifying specific contingencies, another ap- proach consists of establishing a long list of contingencies, since many factors can influence which one is the worst 4 . For instance, in 10 , a decomposition framework to solve the same TSCUC with a rotor angle constraint is proposed as a way to consider multiple contingencies. A disadvantage of this approach is that it relies on a transient stability assessment (TSA) to generate a cut for the master problem, and, as it was mentioned earlier, TSA is generally not fast enough to solve a problem in the context of real-time operation. Finally, a mixed integer second-order cone programming formulation was suggested in 11 . This approach considers voltage stabil- ity and frequency stability constraints. However, the voltage stability constraints are mainly for inverter based resources (IBR) and are modeled as continuous constraints. It does not take into account long-term voltage stability issues caused by transformer tap-change. Being part of the Northeast Power Coordination Council (NPCC), another important responsibility of Hydro-QuebecarXiv:2405.20199v2 eess.SY 27 Oct 2024 2 as a Reliability Coordinator (RC) is reserves monitoring. Most of the NPCC members rely on zonal reserves threshold with no transmission constraints inside the zone 12 14 . More precisely, they monitor their reserves by co-optimizing reserves and energy in their UC since the same resources often provide both services. This strategy cannot be implemented by Hydro-Quebec, given that power is mainly generated far north while most of the load is consumed in its southern part. Moreover, the activation of reserve resources can impact stability transfer limits on Hydro-Quebec, so it had to come up with an alternate approach to reserve monitoring. For this purpose, Hydro-Quebec developed a novel transient stability constrained reserve monitoring (TSCRM) tool. This paper focuses on the unique approach used by Hydro- Quebec to include
__label__energy	SECURE FEDERATED LEARNING FOR RESIDENTIAL SHORT TERM LOAD FORECASTING Joaquin Delgado Fernandez Interdisciplinary Centre for Security, Reliability and Trust (SnT) FINATRAX, University of Luxembourg Luxembourg joaquin.delgadofernandez uni.lu Sergio Potenciano Menci Interdisciplinary Centre for Security, Reliability and Trust (SnT) FINATRAX, University of Luxembourg Luxembourg sergio.potenciano-menci uni.lu Charles Lee Interdisciplinary Centre for Security, Reliability and Trust (SnT) FINATRAX, University of Luxembourg Luxembourg charles.lee uni.lu Alexander Rieger Interdisciplinary Centre for Security, Reliability and Trust (SnT) FINATRAX, University of Luxembourg Luxembourg alexander.rieger uni.lu Gilbert Fridgen Interdisciplinary Centre for Security, Reliability and Trust (SnT) FINATRAX, University of Luxembourg Luxembourg gilbert.fridgen uni.lu September 20, 2022 ABSTRACT With high levels of intermittent power generation and dynamic demand patterns, accurate forecasts for residential loads have become essential. Smart meters can play an important role when making these forecasts as they provide detailed load data. However, using smart meter data for load forecasting is challenging due to data privacy requirements. This paper investigates how these requirements can be addressed through a combination of federated learning and privacy preserving techniques such as differential privacy and secure aggregation. For our analysis, we employ a large set of residential load data and simulate how different federated learning models and privacy preserving techniques affect performance and privacy. Our simulations reveal that combining federated learning and privacy preserving techniques can secure both high forecasting accuracy and near-complete privacy. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁnd that such combinations enable a high level of information sharing while ensuring privacy of both the processed load data and forecasting models. Moreover, we identify and discuss challenges of applying federated learning, differential privacy and secure aggregation for residential short-term load forecasting. Keywords Federated Learning Deep Neural Networks Different Privacy Secure Aggregation Secure Federated Learning Short Term Load ForecastingarXiv:2111.09248v4 cs.LG 19 Sep 2022 Privacy-preserving Learning for residential STLF 1 Introduction As the supply from intermittent and difﬁcult-to-forecast renewable power sources increases, load forecasting and especially residential short-term load forecasting (STLF) - is becoming ever more crucial for the reliability of modern power systems 1,2 . Residential STLF covers forecasting windows from a few minutes to a week ahead 2,3 . It plays an important role for many operational processes in the power system, such as planning, operating, and scheduling 4,5 . For instance, it enables energy providers to identify gaps between supply and demand in their customer portfolios. These gaps typically lead to high imbalance costs and ultimately to higher electricity prices for residential customers 6, 7 . Traditionally, residential STLF has relied on aggregated load data and reference load proﬁles 5,8,9 . Yet, aggregation and reference proﬁles are often ill-suited for power systems with a high share of distributed generation and active demand-side management 5,8 . Moreover, they have become less reliable with residential heating and mobility being increasingly electric 10,11 and consumption patterns growing more dynamic, for instance, due to ﬂuctuating levels of remote work 12 . These trends make accurate forecasting of individual residential loads an important priority. There are various traditional methods for more granular STLF, but most build on limiting linearity assumptions (correlation between values and past values) even though residential load patterns are often highly dynamic 5 . Examples include time series models that rely on seasonal autoregressive integrated moving averages (ARIMA) 5,13 , exponential smoothing, or linear transfer functions. Residential STFL is thus increasingly relying on methods that can work with non-linear dependencies, such as many Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) models 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 . A core challenge for any of these methods is the availability of granular data 19 . In many countries, this data scarcity problem is tackled by pushing for advanced metering infrastructure (AMI), which substantially increases the resolution of residential load data 20 . STLF methods can make use of this data using either centralized or decentralized approaches. Centralized approaches transfer smart meter data to a central forecasting system. While these forecasting systems promise very accurate results, they face a twofold problem. First, they are subject to substantial privacy challenges because smart meter data are often easily attributable to natural persons. That is, data collected from smart meters can be detailed enough to permit the identiﬁcation of speciﬁc customers 21 . The transfer and aggregation of smart meter data is thus typically subject to data privacy regulations such as the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and its obligations and requirements for processing personal data 22,23 . Second, there are considerable regulatory uncertainties. In particular, it is often unclear how device ownership (who owns the smart meter) and aggregation impact data ownership. Moreover, speciﬁc regulations for smart meter data are typically absent 24,25 . These regulatory uncertainties often mean that centralized approaches such as Belgium s Atrias 26 , or Norway s Elhub 27 , which provide so-called data lakes , may not be desirable. Decentralized approaches aim to tackle some of these issues by processing smart meter data locally. A particularly promising of these decentralized approaches is Federated Learning (FL) 28,29 . Federated Learning is a machine learning technique that offers a collaboration framework for clients. In a so-called federation clients jointly train and share prediction models instead of training data. Although FL cannot guarantee privacy by itself 30,31 , it can be combined with privacy-preserving techniques such as differential privacy (DP) and secure aggregation (SecAgg). Even though such a combination could substantially beneﬁt residential STLF, academic attention to FL has been limited so far 32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43 and the two components have mostly been considered mostly in isolation 44,45,46 . With this paper, we seek to close several gaps in the literature on FL-based STLF: Firstly, we aim to deepen the understanding of FL-based STLF by examining the effects of clustering based on Pearson correlation and the effects of architectural complexity. Secondly, we analyze the privacy and performance effects of adding privacy-preserving techniques (DP and SecAgg) to FL. Third, we identify key challenges associated with using a combination of FL and privacy-preserving techniques. To do so, we conduct the following analysis: Initially, we identify promising NN architectures from a
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Exploring Lightweight Federated Learning for Distributed Load Forecasting Abhishek Duttagupta, Jin Zhao, Shanker Shreejith Electronic Electrical Engineering Trinity College Dublin, Ireland Email: aduttagu,zhaoj6,shankers tcd.ie Abstract Federated Learning (FL) is a distributed learning scheme that enables deep learning to be applied to sensitive data streams and applications in a privacy-preserving manner. This paper focuses on the use of FL for analyzing smart energy meter data with the aim to achieve comparable accuracy to state-of- the-art methods for load forecasting while ensuring the privacy of individual meter data. We show that with a lightweight fully connected deep neural network, we are able to achieve forecasting accuracy comparable to existing schemes, both at each meter source and at the aggregator, by utilising the FL framework. The use of lightweight models further reduces the energy and resource consumption caused by complex deep-learning models, making this approach ideally suited for deployment across resource- constrained smart meter systems. With our proposed lightweight model, we are able to achieve an overall average load forecasting RMSE of 0.17, with the model having a negligible energy overhead of 50 mWh when performing training and inference on an Arduino Uno platform. Index Terms Federated learning, deep neural networks, Non - i.i.d distribution, data heterogeneity I. I NTRODUCTION Electricity demand forecasting is a crucial function in the energy industry to allow both producers and distribution system operators to optimize the generation and distribution of electricity in real-time 1 . It aims to balance the supply and demand curve and maintain the stability of the electric grid across the entire network of producers and consumers. Smart energy meters 2 play a vital role in load forecasting by integrating communication capabilities on top of their ability to monitor energy consumption accurately 3 . Smart meters transmit demand data from consumers at specified intervals to distribution system operators, allowing them to observe the data in real time, make predictions on future demand, and adapt the grid to respond to this expected demand. This data- driven approach has enabled electric grid operators to optimize energy generation and storage to adapt to load peaks from the supply-side, and at the same time achieve demand-side load balancing through novel schemes like dynamic pricing tariff rates to achieve supply-demand equilibrium 4 . Researchers have proposed different algorithms for load forecasting that primarily enables dynamic energy pricing and usage optimization 5 . In 4 , the authors apply gradient- boosted regression trees on the Spanish Energy dataset to minimize prediction error for a day-ahead forecast, showing the effectiveness of ML models in load forecasting. However, load forecasting is a challenging task due to the stochastic nature of customer usage profiles. In 6 , the authors show that the inclusion of spatial and temporal parameters can have a significant impact on the accuracy of load prediction. Area- based clustering techniques have also been explored to groupcustomers with similar electric energy consumption patterns in a spatiotemporal window to improve the accuracy of load forecasting 7 , 8 . Hybrid models combining classical and deep learning meth- ods have also demonstrated promising results in load forecast- ing. In 9 , the authors developed a hybrid model utilizing ARIMA, logistic regression, and deep neural networks to predict peak load days with a 70 accuracy. Other studies reported in the literature have proposed models based on Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with fuzzy time series, achieving superior results compared to traditional models 10 , 11 . Using complex models such as a standalone Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) model 12 , a combination of LSTM and CNN 13 , and Gated Re-current Units (GRU) combined with CNN 14 have also shown to achieve similar prediction performance. The use of rolling updates and Bi-LSTMs was shown to reduce the computational time over other deep learning methods, while also improving the accuracy of load forecasting 15 . While most deep learning models have been primarily fo- cused on improving forecasting performance, privacy concerns have risen with the centralized learning approach used by load forecasting schemes. In the case of centralized models, data from smart meters of consumers is monitored and accumulated at locations within the distribution grid, which is used by the model to predict peak loads or other learned parameters about the demand in specific clusters. It has been shown that non-intrusive analysis of granular load curves can provide information about appliances, usage patterns and hence per- sonal details about consumers 16 , 17 . Privacy-preserving machine learning (ML) through federated learning (FL) is a promising scheme to address the challenges of centralized learning on sensitive data 17 . With FL, individual models can be trained collaboratively and locally, removing the need to accumulate and share sensitive data across the network. While FL has shown to be effective in other domains 18 , 19 , its application to load forecasting is very limited. In 20 , the authors propose a combination of LSTM and dense neural network within an FL framework for load forecasting and uti- lize clustering to improve the model s prediction performance. However, the root mean squared error (RMSE) measure of the federated approach was higher than the centralized learn- ing technique. The work in 21 achieved better prediction performance using a global generalized model aggregated from locally trained LSTM models at the consumer end, and by incorporating spatiotemporal factors into the framework. However, the complexity of local and global models as well as their high energy consumption is a barrier to their widespreadarXiv:2404.03320v1 cs.LG 4 Apr 2024 deployment in constrained devices such as smart meters. In this work, we apply an FL framework for short-term load forecasting using the openly available smart meter energy consumption dataset for London households 22 . The key objective is to show that comparable accuracy to state-of- the-art methods in load prediction can be achieved using lightweight deep neural network (DNN) models within an FL framework to restrict the need for granular data sharing and aggregation across the network. To replicate real-world non- independent and identical distribution
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	Stochastic simulation of residential building occupant -driven energy use in a bottom -up model of the U.S. housing stock Jianli Chen1, Rajendra Adhikari2, Eric Wilson2, Joseph Robert son2, Anthony Fontanini2, Ben Polly2, Opeoluwa Olawale2 1 University of Utah 2 National Renewable Energy Laboratory Abstract The residential buildings sector is one of the largest electricity consumers worldwide and contributes disproportionally to peak electricity demand in many regions. Strongly driven by occu pant activities at home, household energy consumption is stochastic and heterogeneous in nature. However, most residential building energy models applied by industry use homogeneous, deterministic occupant activity schedules, which work well for prediction s of annual energy consumption, but can result in unrealistic hourly or sub -hourly electric load profiles, with exaggerated or muted peaks. This mattered less in the past, but the increasing proportion of variable renewable energy generators in power syste ms means that representing the heterogeneity and stochasticity of occupant behavior is crucial for reliable energy planning . This is particularly true for systems that include distributed energy resources, such as grid -interactive efficient buildings, sola r photovoltaics, and battery storage. This work presents a stochastic occupant behavior simulator that models the energy use behavior of individual household members . It also presents an integration with a building stock model to simulate residential build ing loads more accurately at community, city, state, and national scales. More specifically, we first employ clustering techniques to identify distinct patterns of occupant behavior. Then, we combine time -inhomogeneous Markov chain simulation s with probabi listic sampling of event durations to realistically simulate occupant behaviors. This stochastic simulator is integrated with ResStock , a large -scale residential building stock simulation tool, to demonstrate the capability of stochastic residential build ing load modeling at scale. The simulation results were validated against both American Time Use Survey data and measured end -use electricity data for accuracy and reliability. Keywords: agent -based modeling, building stock modeling, Markov chain, occupa nt modeling, residential electricity use, stochastic occupant behavior model 1. Introduction 1.1 Context and Motivation The residential building sector constitutes one of the largest consumers of energy across the world, ranging from 15 to 28 percent according to the building energy consumption information review 1 . With urbanization , population growth , and increasingly digital and connected lifestyles , global energy consumption from the residential sector is expect ed to increase 1.4 annually over the next 30 years 2 . In the United States, t he residential sector uses 38 of electricity 3 , 4 and contributes disproportionally to peak electricity demand, representing over 50 of peak electricity demand in some regions of the country , such as Texas 5 . With the increasing supply of variable renewable energy into electricity systems, the timing and flexibility of electricity use is becoming more important; in some locations , wholesale electricity prices are going negative with inc reasing frequency 6 , 7 , and duck curve challenges are becoming more critical for utilities 8 . Residential building load simulation has typically been based on deterministic household activity schedules, which neglect the heterogeneity and stochasticity of resident behaviors . This approach has been sufficient in most cases for predictions of annual energy consumption , though for some end-use technologies , even the prediction of annual energy consumption require s a more stochastic and time-resolved modeling approach . Figure 1 (left) shows an example of a deterministic schedule for hot water usage , representing a blended average across many households, compared to an example of a stochastically generated hot water usage schedule for a single day in a single household (right) . Wilson et al. 9 document s deterministic schedules covering all major end uses , which have been established as standard occupancy simulation protocols for the U.S. Department of Energy s Building America program. Figure 1. Example of a deterministic schedu le for daily hot water usage , derived from an average across many households (left) and a stochastically generated hot water usage schedule for a single day in a single household (right). Note that the vertical axis scale on the right -hand plot is 40 times that of the left-hand plot. Traditionally, residential building energy simulation has focused on predicting annual energy consumption (e.g., for rating and labeling systems) and on predicting annual energy savings from energy efficiency measures (e.g., for energy efficiency program design) . Using deterministic and homogeneous behavior schedule s is generally well -suited for these applications , with some ex ceptions for certain technologies , such as heat pump water heaters 10 . Even when hourly simulation results are of interest, using a fixed schedule that represents an average of all households is a ppealing, because it allows the use of a single model (or a handful of prototype models) to represent the entire residential sector, with fairly accurate estimates of sector -wide hourly electricity demand by end use. Such an approach was used to produce a dataset that has been widely used by industry and academia since 2013 11 .1 However, this homogeneous, deterministic approach to representing occupant behavior fails to capture the diversity of how individual households are impacted by various technologies and policies . Frick et al. 12 consulted with a group of more than 70 individuals represe nting more than 50 organi zations in the U nited States, including utilities, independent system operator s regional transmission organizations, public utility commissions, state and local government, consulting firms, software companies, academic institution s, nongovernmental organizations that represent utilities and regional efficiency groups, national laborator ies, and the U.S. Department of Energy. They found that a majority of use cases (35 out of 61) for end-use load profile modeling either require , or would benefit from , individual building or customer end - use load profiles exhibiting realistic degrees of heterogeneity and stochasticity 12 . Examples of these use cases include utility rate design and ratepayer impact analys es, electric distribution system analys es (non -wires alternatives, electric vehicle and solar photovoltaic hosting
__label__energy	2022 IEEE. Accepted to be Published in Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE PES General Meeting jDenver, CO, USA. Exploring Physical-Based Constraints in Short-Term Load Forecasting: A Defense Mechanism Against Cyberattack Mojtaba Dezvarei, Kevin Tomsovic, Jinyuan Stella Sun, Seddik M. Djouadi Abstract Short term load forecasting is an essential task that supports utilities to schedule generating sufﬁcient power for balancing supply and demand, and can become an attractive target for cyber attacks. It has been shown that the power system state estimation is vulnerable to false data injection attacks. Similarly, false data injection on input variables can result in large forecast errors. The load forecasting system should have a protective mechanism to mitigate such attacks. One approach is to model physical system constraints that would identify anomalies. This study investigates possible constraints associated with a load forecasting application. Looking at regional forecasted loads, we analyze the relation between each zone through similarity measures used in time series in order to identify constraints. Comprehensive results for historical ERCOT load data indicate variation in the measures recognizing the existence of malicious action. Still, these static measures can not be considered an efﬁcient index across different scenarios. Index Terms Short-term load forecasting, anomaly detection, physical constraints, time series, statistical indices, similarity measure. I. I NTRODUCTION Load forecasting is a critical to provide an efﬁcient decision- making in power system operation and planning. Among the load forecasting types, short term load forecasting (STLF) plays a signiﬁcant role in achieving economic, reliable, and secure operating operation. STLF supports a time horizon ranging from one hour to one week. The primary objective of the STLF function is to provide load predictions for the basic generation scheduling functions (unit commitment and hydroscheduling), for assessing the security of the power system at anytime point, and timely dispatcher information 1 . To predict the electric load, there are critical variables that accurately forecast the load. Many forecasting models with a wide range of methodologies for STLF are suggested in the literature. The models are mainly classiﬁed into two groups: statistical techniques, such as, multiple linear re- gression models (MLR), autoregressive and moving average (ARMA) models; and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) techniques, such as, artiﬁcial neural network (ANN), fuzzy regression models, support vector machines (SVMs) 2 . All methods are constructed based on input data indicating the independent This work was partially supported by NSF grant CNS-2038922. Mojtaba Dezvarei, Kevin Tomsovic, Jinyuan Stella Sun, and Seddik M. Djouadi are with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA. (e-mail: mdez- vare utk.edu; tomsovic utk.edu; jysun utk.edu; mdjouadi utk.edu)variables compatible with the forecasting horizon. In STLF, the primary inputs may include weather variables, calendar variables, and the load of the preceding hours 3 , 4 . In 5 , 6 , the authors consider an additional variable to address locally increasing (or decreasing) load and the fact that elec- tricity demand is affected by the temperatures of the preceding hours, respectively. Therefore, the quantity and quality of input data be important for an accurate estimation. Smart grid and renewable energy resources bring opportunities for improved forecasts by providing sensing and data acquisition capabilities with high resolution 7 . This work discusses big data applications and associated implementation issues in load forecasting. With these new sources of data, the input data may face challenges, including measurement device error and cyberat- tacks (e.g., false data injection) that cause operators to make improper decisions. The vulnerability analysis for input data in load forecasting is analyzed in 8 . It is a vital task to check the quality of input data to guarantee accuracy. Statistical analysis and information theory 9 , machine learning (ML)- based method 10 , 11 are some approaches for anomaly detection schemes. As the attackers also beneﬁt from AI and ML methods, attackers may deploy sophisticated techniques to bypass the anomaly detection, such as, targeting state estimation and electricity market application ? , 4 , 12 . Although detec- tion scheme imposes difﬁculty for the attacker, this may be overcome by, for example, reinforcing the threat model 13 . To address this issue, physical-based constraints can provide a stronger obstacle for attacker. Li et al. propose adding inherent constraints in power system state estimation (SE) 14 . This idea makes a further constrained problem that needs to be solved by attackers while satisfying the physical systems inherent constraints. In this paper, we seek to deploy a similar concept that supports building a defense mechanism for STLF against adversarial attack. Load forecasts can be represented as a time series, which offers various tools to identify characteristics. In this regards, similarity measures can facilitate us to identify physical-based constraints. The paper s main contribution is that this is a ﬁrst attempt to deﬁne a protective mechanism in STLF associated with these inherent constraints. The paper is organized as follows: The STLF formulation and modeling are presented in Section II. Section III presents the problem statement in STLF capturing the constraints. 1arXiv:2203.03774v1 eess.SY 7 Mar 2022 2022 IEEE. Accepted to be Published in Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE PES General Meeting jDenver, CO, USA. Exploring constraints using similarity measures is explained in Section III. Then, simulation results and observations are discussed in Section V. Section VI provides some concluding remarks. II. S HORT TERM LOAD FORECASTING MODELING In STLF, the objective is to estimate the load for a short time horizon, typically, ranging from the next hour to one week. The main intention of STLF is an hourly prediction of aggregated load. In addition, the STLF may focus on forecasting the daily peak system load, the value of system load at a speciﬁc time of day, hourly or half-hourly of system energy, and the daily and weekly system energy 1 . In this regard, the STLF is concerned with scheduling purposes for the most economic commitment of generation sources consistent with reliability requirements, operational constraints. Furthermore, the prediction of load may be used for the assessment power system
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 Boosting the clean energy transition through data science Fronzetti Colladon, A., Pisello, A. L., Cabeza , L. F. This is the preprint of the following paper . Please cite as: Fronzetti Colladon, A., Pisello, A. L., Cabeza, L. F. (2024). Boosting the clean energy transition through data science. Energy Policy, 193, 114304. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.enpol.2024.114304 This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution - NonCommercial -NoDerivatives 4.0 International License. To view a copy of this license, visit http: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 or send a letter to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA. 2 Boosting the clean energy transition through data science Andrea Fronzetti Colladona, Anna Laura Piselloa, Luisa F . Cabezab a Department of Engineering, University o f Perugia, Via G. Duranti 93 06125 Perugia, Italy b GREiA Research Group, Universitat de Lleida, Pere de Cabrera 3, Lleida, Spain The demand for research supporting the development of new policy frameworks for energy saving and conservation has never been more critical. As climate change accelerates and its impacts become increasingly severe, the need for sustainable and resilient so cioeconomic systems is increasingly pressing (Aldieri et al., 2021; Cabeza Ürge -V orsatz, 2020) . The strategic worldwide importance of energy transition and environmental sustainability cannot be understood without the profound knowledge of the context of human well -being and societal and climate resilience. As growing environmental challenges occur , the integration of big data becomes increasingly crucial for promptly detecting predictable phenomena, and finally driving these transitions. Advanced analytics and collective intelligence can now disclose the power of big data to reach up specific insig hts in drawing dynamic energy consumption patterns, towards the effective implementation of dedicated energy policies, and the exploitation of new sustainable technologies. The timely identification of the driving trends may be carried out b y leveraging vast datasets, useful to predict future consumption, and tailor solutions to enhance efficiency and sustainability , while minimising environmental risks and societal vunerability . For instance, real -time data analysis can optimize the operation of renewable energy sources, leading to a more stable and reliable energy grid. 3 Additionally, understanding consumer behavior through data analytics allows for more targeted and effective energy -saving initiatives (Siano, 2014) while keeping the same wellbeing and environmental comfort targets . The significance of big data extends to evaluating and improving energy policies. Policymakers can indeed take advantage of data-driven insights to conceive, design, and implement effective policies that promote sustainable behaviors to rationalize energy use and reduce carbon footprints. At the same time, data analytics may quantitatively disclose the effectiveness of a variety of subsidies, fiscal incentives, and regulatory frameworks and specific measures, supporting governmental actions towards a maximum exploitation . This virtuous feedback loop is in fact essential for driving progressive improvement and human adaptation in the face of continuously evolving environmental and societal needs. In response to this global challenge, this special issue seeks to explore how advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Science can drive the energy transition and enhance environmental sustainability. The digital economy has significantly impacted the energy transition, enabling more efficient energy use and fostering the adoption of green technologies (W. Li et al., 2023; Shahbaz et al., 2022) . Recent technological advancements have revolutionized our ability to make data - driven decisions. High -quality online data sources offer a unique opportunity to understand how public awareness and citizens behavior are shaped by policies and media coverage of sustainable energy solutions (Bradshaw et al., 2022; Brown Sovacool, 2017; Romanova, 2021; Winfield Dolter, 2014) . This understanding is crucial for developing strategies that encourage the adoption of green technologies and improve energy conservation. 4 As decision -makers increasingly rely on information related to climate change, global warming, and green technology advancements, processing and interpreting large volumes of data becomes indispensable (Fabiani et al., 2023; Piselli et al., 2022; Thomas et al., 2022) . Moreover , big data analysis can provide insights into how companies interact with each other and with consumers. These insights can inform the development of more effective business strategies and support the transition to sustainable energy practices (Barchiesi Fronzetti Colladon, 2021; Vestrelli et al., 2024) . This special issue includes 10 articles addressing the mentioned issues from heterogeneous perspectives. Understanding public perception and the role of media in shaping attitudes toward energy transition policies is crucial for effective policy implementation . Kim et al. (2024) explore the attitudes of the media and stakeholders towards energy transition policies in Korea. By analyzing online news articles and user comments using advanced machine learning techniques, the study reveals that intense negative emotions dominate public discourse, often fueled by politically charged in dividuals. The findings suggest that news framing can significantly mitigate emotional intensity and enhance public deliberation. The work of Vestrelli et al. (2024) focuses on firm communication and investigates the impact of climate risk disclosure on firm market value. This study finds a positive relationship between climate risk disclosure and firm value using text mining and social network analysis on company reports and transcripts of earning conference calls . However, this positive relationship could turn negativ e when companies face tougher scrutiny due to growing concerns regarding their environmental impact. Four papers in this issue showcase the potential of machine learning techniques in addressing diverse energy -related challenges. These studies demonstrate the efficacy of machine 5 learning in tasks ranging from market analysis to poverty prediction and policy evaluation within the energy domain. Kocaarslan and Mushtaq (2024) examine the dynamic conditional correlations between municipal green bonds and risky assets during the COVID -19 pandemic. Al Kez et al. (2024) leverage machine learning to predict energy poverty by combining satellite remote sensing with socioeconomic data. This approach successfully identifies districts with significant energy poverty, providing a valuable tool for policymakers. The study of Cr oce et al. (2024) focuses on identifying cleantech firms and analyzing the impact of national policies on the cleantech landscape in Europe. Lastly, Ates et al.
__label__energy	The Singlet Triplet Gap of Cyclobutadiene: The CIPSI-Driven CC( P;Q) Study Swati S. Priyadarsini,1Karthik Gururangan,1Jun Shen,1and Piotr Piecuch1, 2,a) 1)Department of Chemistry, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA 2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA (Dated: 28 May 2024) An accurate determination of singlet triplet gaps in biradicals, including cyclobutadiene in the automerization barrier region where one has to balance the substantial nondynamical many-electron correlation effects char- acterizing the singlet ground state with the predominantly dynamical correlations of the lowest-energy triplet, remains a challenge for many quantum chemistry methods. High-level coupled-cluster (CC) approaches, such as the CC method with a full treatment of singly, doubly, and triply excited clusters (CCSDT), are often capable of providing reliable results, but the routine application of such methods is hindered by their high computational costs. We have recently proposed a practical alternative to converging the CCSDT energetics at small fractions of the computational effort, even when electron correlations become stronger and con- nected triply excited clusters are larger and nonperturbative, by merging the CC( P;Q) moment expansions with the selected configuration interaction methodology abbreviated as CIPSI. We demonstrate that one can accurately approximate the highly accurate CCSDT potential surfaces characterizing the lowest singlet and triplet states of cyclobutadiene along the automerization coordinate and the gap between them using tiny fractions of triply excited cluster amplitudes identified with the help of relatively inexpensive CIPSI Hamiltonian diagonalizations. I. INTRODUCTION Biradicals play a key role in chemistry as re- action intermediates in thermal and photochemical pathways1 7as well as functional materials used in molecular magnets,8 10battery electrodes,11and organic photovoltaics.12 15An important quantity characteriz- ing the electronic structure of biradicals, especially in the context of designing molecules for magnetic, elec- trochemical, and photovoltaic applications, is the en- ergy gap ES Tseparating the lowest-lying singlet and triplet states (throughout this work, we define ES Tas ES ET, where ESandETare the electronic energies of the relevant singlet and triplet states, i.e., when the sin- glet is lower than the triplet, ES T 0). Accurate com- putational determination of the ES Tvalues in biradi- cals remains, however, a difficult task because it requires balancing the strong nondynamical many-electron corre- lation effects characterizing the low-spin singlet states with the predominantly dynamical correlations associ- ated with their high-spin triplet counterparts.16 32 This challenge is exemplified by the cyclobutadi- ene molecule, which is the focus of the present study and which has fascinated experimental and theoretical chemists for decades with questions surrounding its low- lying electronic states, anti-aromaticity, and reactivity in cycloaddition and isomerization reactions. In the D4h- symmetric square structure corresponding to the barrier along the automerization coordinate or the minimum on a)Corresponding author; e-mail: piecuch chemistry.msu.edu.the lowest triplet potential, cyclobutadiene is a biradi- cal with its four valence πorbitals arranged in a net- work consisting of the nondegenerate a2uorbital, the doubly degenerate egshell, and the nondegenerate b1uor- bital. The distribution of two of the four valence electrons among the pair of degenerate frontier egorbitals gives rise to three singlet states of the B1g(D4h),A1g(D4h), and B2g(D4h) symmetries and a A2g(D4h)-symmetric triplet state, all involving the doubly occupied a2uand unoc- cupied b1uorbitals and the partially occupied egshell in their zeroth-order description.30,33 39As shown in the early ab initio calculations,33,34,40 42and as confirmed in many subsequent theoretical studies, such as those re- ported in Refs. 20, 26 28, 30 32, 35 39, the lowest singlet of the B1g(D4h) symmetry, which has a substantial mul- ticonfigurational character, is the ground state, whereas the predominantly single-reference A2g(D4h)-symmetric triplet, in violation of Hund s rule, is the first excited state. To be more specific, if one orients cyclobutadi- ene such that the two C2axes bisect the carbon carbon bonds, which is a convention adopted in the present study, the1B1g(D4h) ground state of the square struc- ture is dominated by two closed-shell determinants in which one of the two degenerate egorbitals is occupied by two electrons and the other one is empty (see, e.g., Refs. 35, 37, 39, and 42). This should be contrasted with the lowest-energy3A2g(D4h) state, which is charac- terized by single occupancy of each of the egorbitals. While the lowest3A2g(D4h) state is stable in the square geometry, which is a minimum on the corresponding triplet surface, the1B1g(D4h) ground state is unstable with respect to the rectangular distortion of the carbon carbon bonds that lifts the degeneracy of the valence egarXiv:2405.15864v1 physics.chem-ph 24 May 2024 2 orbitals and lowers its total electronic energy due to the pseudo-Jahn Teller effect. This results in the formation of the D2h-symmetric rectangular species characterized by the closed-shell, predominantly single-determinantal, 1Ag(D2h) ground state, which represents a minimum on the lowest-energy singlet potential.30,31,35 37,39,42The distortion of the multiconfigurational1B1g(D4h) state into the1Ag(D2h) state coincides with the automeriza- tion coordinate in cyclobutadiene, which describes the conversion of the rectangular, D2h-symmetric, closed- shell reactant (R) into the equivalent product conformer by passing through the square, D4h-symmetric, biradical transition state (TS). Obtaining an accurate description of the potential energy curves (PECs) characterizing the lowest singlet 1Ag(D2h) and triplet 3B1g(D2h) states of cyclobutadiene along its D2h-symmetric automerization coordinate, and the gap between them, particularly in the neighborhood of the square biradical species, remains a significant challenge for modern ab initio techniques as it requires a high-level treatment of many-electron corre- lation effects in order to accurately capture and balance the strong nondynamical correlations associated with the multiconfigurational singlet state with the largely dy- namical correlations dominating the triplet state. A traditional way of addressing this and similar chal- lenges is to use multireference approaches,43 50but in this work we focus on the single-reference coupled-cluster (CC) methodology,51 57which employs the exponential wave function ansatz58,59 Ψ eT Φ , (1) where Φ is the N-electron reference determinant that serves as a Fermi vacuum and T PN n 1Tnis the cluster operator, with Tndesignating the n-body component of Tresponsible for generating connected n-particle n-hole (np-nh) excitations out of Φ . It is well established that as long as the number of strongly correlated
__label__energy	Co-optimization of Operational Unit Commitment and Reserve Power Scheduling for Modern Grid Ramkrishna Mishan, Matthew Egan, Mohammed Ben-Idris, and Hanif Livani Department of Electrical Biomedical Engineering, University of Nevada, Reno, Reno, NV 89557 (emails:fmishan, matthewegan g nevada.unr.edu, mbenidris unr.edu, and hlivani unr.edu ) Abstract Modern power grids combine conventional gener- ators with distributed energy resource (DER) generators in response to concerns over climate change and long-term energy security. Due to the intermittent nature of DERs, different types of energy storage devices (ESDs) must be installed to minimize unit commitment problems and accommodate spinning reserve power. ESDs have operational and resource constraints, such as charge and discharge rates or maximum and minimum state of charge (SoC). This paper proposes a linear programming (LP) optimization framework to maximize the unit-committed power for a speciﬁc optimum spinning reserve power for a par- ticular power grid. Using this optimization framework, we also determine the total dispatchable power, non-dispatchable power, spinning reserve power, and arbitrage power using DER and ESD resource constraints. To describe the ESD and DER constraints, this paper evaluates several factors: availability, dispatchability, non-dispatchability, spinning reserve, and arbitrage factor. These factors are used as constraints in this LP optimization to determine the total optimal reserve power from the existing DERs. The proposed optimization framework maximizes the ratio of dispatchable to non-dispatchable power to minimize unit commitment problems within a speciﬁc range of spinning reserve power set to each DER. This optimization framework is implemented in the modiﬁed IEEE 34-bus distribution system, adding ten DERs in ten different buses to verify its efﬁcacy. Index Terms Distributed energy resources, unit commitment, operating and non-operating reserves, distribution systems I. I NTRODUCTION Different types of renewable distributed energy resources (DERs) including solar photovoltaic panels plants and wind turbines integrate with traditional generators (Steam Turbines, Gas Turbines, Diesel Generators, etc.) in the modern grid s transmission and distribution power network. Under high renewable energy penetration, DERs should be utilized to pro- vide unit commitment and spinning reserve power alongside conventional generators 1 . However, the intermittent nature of DER generators creates a unit commitment problem 2 . Also, if the DERs are assigned to provide reserve power without Energy Storage Devices (ESDs), the DERs may operate at set points below the available renewable power. In such a case, aside from non-committed reserve power, some portion of renewable energy is wasted. To make DERs responsible for stable grid operation, the ESDs incorporate these distributed generators 3 . Without using a proportionate amount of ESD size, the high penetration of DER into the existing grid creates grid power ﬂuctuations, which need to be mitigated by optimizing the reserve power scheduling and minimizing the unit commitment problem of an individual or acluster of DERs 4 . However, to generate the unit committed and reserve power from the combined solar-storage system, the renewable plant designer needs to explore all individual components (PV Array Plants, Inverters, ESDs) resource and operational constraints or the combination of these compo- nents when operating concurrently. In 5 , the authors concentrated on grid-scale storage sys- tems for day-ahead optimal scheduling. However, the authors assumed that storage devices reserve power uniformity could not be maintained due to limitations of discharge rates or ramp rates. Although in 6 the authors suggested a large storage system for load labeling when integrating with solar power ap- plication, they overlooked how the charging discharging cycle of storage systems signiﬁcantly reconﬁgure the active power reserve market. By using a proper expression of reserve power associated with various risk levels, a model for discovering op- timal unit commitment power was developed in 7 . In 8 , the authors presented a single mixed-integer optimization model after efﬁciently integrating unit commitment and generation growth planning. Nonetheless, these papers did not explore all the resource and operational constraints when incorporating ESDs with PV inverters. Identifying the operational factor and designing operational constraints after considering all the DER resources is vital to extract unit-committed and spinning reserve power. Estimating unit committed renewable power generations with speciﬁc amount of reserve power is critical for a stable power grid. Unit commitment (UC) can be expressed as the determination of generating units to be invariant during a short-term scheduling period (hours, a day, or a week) 9 . The UC must satisfy system demand and reserve requirements in an optimal, cost-efﬁcient manner. Due to high variability in the demand side, the researchers propose several factors, such as the utilization factor and diversity factor 10 . These factors are utilized to accurately schedule the generation power and reserve power for the conventional power plant. Distributed renewable power generation has a high variability like load demand power. Also, in the conventional generation system, the unit commitment decision is largely inﬂuenced by unit constraints, synchronization, start-up, shutdown, system capac- ity, spinning reserve, and non-spinning reserve 11 . However, the DER inverters start-up and shutdown capacity are not the problems; instead, their issue is intermittency. Due to the high variability of the DER generator, this paper applies several operational factors as a constraint to ﬁnd the maximum unitarXiv:2304.12302v1 eess.SY 24 Apr 2023 commitment power. When a DER generator integrates with the storage device connected to the grid, a portion of its power is immediately scheduled based on available power and storage resource constraints. Also, a small segment is scheduled for reserve power, depending on the system operator s request or load demand proﬁle. In this way, total scheduled power is ﬂexible. Due to this ﬂexible scheduling, DERs operate similarly to a dispatchable operational mode of conventional generators during the storage discharging mode. Integrating the intermittent DER into the power grid would create frequency and voltage ﬂuctuation due to the unit com- mitment problem. Therefore, before providing ancillary ser- vices like frequency or voltage regulation or spinning reserve, the DER must provide the unit committed power. Without any storage incorporation, the DER would always generate non-unit-committed or non-dispatchable power even with the perfect prediction of its generation. Therefore, it is critical for ISO operator
__label__energy	Energy Consumption Modeling for DED - based Hybrid Additive Manufacturing Md Rabiul Hasan , Zhichao Liu , Asif Rahman a IMSE, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26501, USA Corresponding author. Tel.: 0 - 000 - 000 - 0000 ; fax: 0 - 000 - 000 - 0000. E - mail address : zhichao.liu mail.wvu.edu Abstract The awareness of energy consumption is gaining much more attention in manufacturing due to its economic and sustainability benefits. An energy consumption model is needed for quantifying the consumption and predicting the impact of various process parameters in manufacturing. This paper aims to develop an energy consumption model for Direct Energy Deposition (DED) based Hybrid Additive Manufactur ing (HAM) for an Inconel 718 part. The Specific Energy Consumption (SEC) is used while developing the energy consumption of the product manufacturing lifecycle. This study focuses on the analysis to investigate three signif icant factors (scanning speed, la ser power, and feed rate), their interactions effects, and whether they have a significant effect.in energy consumption. The results suggest that all the factors have a strong influence, but their interaction effects have a weak infl uence on the energy co nsumption for HAM. Among the three process parameters, it is found that laser power has the most significant effect on energy consumption. Again, based on the regression analysis, this study also recommends high scanning speed while the lase r power and fee d rate should be low. Also, idle time has significant energy consumption during the whole HAM process. Keywords: Energy consumption, Hybrid Additive Manufacturing, DED, Specific Energy Consumption Submitted to Springer Nature, The In ternational Journal of Advanced Manufactu ring Technology 1. Introduction Additive manufacturing (AM) is a newly emerging technology to make three - dimensional (3D) parts directly from CAD model layer upon layer 1 . Nowadays, AM is leading a fundamental shift in the way we design and manufacture products 2 . It has become the mainstream due to its numerous benefits, including d esign freedom, material saving, and the reduction of production cost and manufacturing carbon footprint 3 . Direct ed energy deposition (DED) is an AM process in which focused thermal energy is used to melt the deposited materials to make dense 3D structures 4 . With good metallurgical b onding, controllable heat input, minimal stress and distortion, cost - effectiveness for remanufacturing, DED is now widely used in high - value components repair 5 , prototyping 6 , and functionally graded material fabrication 7 . HAM integrates AM process with a secondary process, e.g., CNC machining, to additively fabricate a near - net - shape part in a single setup without a need of post - processing. The HAM process is shown in Fig ure 1, where the additive manufacturing process is used to build the part layer by layer, followed by the machining process to remove the unwanted materials and improve accuracy. Figure 1: Hybrid Additive manufacturing process (sources from Li et. al., 2020) 8 Implementation of HAM technology will enhance AM s capabilities in creating high - geometrical - complexity and high - accuracy 3D structures with a smooth surface finish 9 . It will also reduce the cost of post - processing, decrease material waste, and pave way for the subtractive manufacturing industries to enter the fast - growing AM sector 10 . Nowadays, energy consumption is measured as an excellent tool to evaluate the performance of a manufacturing industry. For sustainable development, the target is to reduce global emissions by zero by 2050 11 . More than 30 of global energy consumption and carbon emissions occur due to manufacturing works 12 . Therefore, there is a trend to investigate and model the energy consumption among different manufacturing processes, and Additive Manufacturing (AM) could not be more exceptional. A recent literature review discovered that most papers calculated the energy consumption for the steady - state processes. They su ggested the transient state should be also considered for the energy consumption model scenario 13 . In an energy consumption analysis for AM processes, Gutierrez - Osorio et al. (2019) concluded that there is a strong relation ship between layer thickness and energy consumption: a greater layer thickness gives a lower energy consumption 14 . To determine the awareness of energy consumption in manufacturing proces ses, Owodunni O. (2017) showed that specific energy consumption decreases with an increase in material processing rate for all manufacturing processes 15 . Si milarly, Kara S. Li W. (2011) explored the relationship between MRR and energy consumption. Their study suggested that less energy consumption happens with higher MRR during the unit energy consumption 16 . To understand the energy consumption in wire and powder - based additive - subtractive manufacturing processes, Jackson et al. (2018) found that the wire - based process consumed 24 less energy than powder - based to manufacture a particular object 17 . Recently, machine learning has been applied to predict the power consumption of the machinery tools Darapa neni et al. (2022). They found that the Facebook Prophet algorithm improved more accuracy 18 . Kong et al. (2022) demonstrated that with the in tegration process planning and scheduling, the energy consumption is less than the non - integrated process planning 19 . Few researchers have been able to draw on any structured research into energy consumption modelling on DED - based Additive - Subtractive Hybrid Manufacturing (ASHM) and the significance of their factor analysis. A recent study found that around 80 of the energy is consumed during the AM for an AHSM process, and they recomm ended increasing the scanning speed and process rate 20 . Watson Taminger (2018) found that AM is more energy efficient for volume fractions less than the critical value than subtractive manufacturing, and vice versa 21 . In this study, an energy consumption modeling is built based on specific energy consumption for DED - based hybrid additive manufacturing (HAM) for nickel - based super alloy parts. The effect of the process parameters, including scanning speed,
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Role of hydrogen in decarbonizing China s electricity and hard-to-abate sectors Haozhe Yang 1,2, , Gang He 3 , Eric Masanet 1,4 , Ranjit Deshmukh 1,5, 1 Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California, 93106, USA 2 Andlinger Center for Energy and Environment, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, USA 3 Marxe School of Public and International Affairs, Baruch College, City University of New York, New York, 10010, USA 4 Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California Santa Barbara, CA, 93106, USA 5 Environmental Studies Program, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California, 93106, USA Correspondence: haozheyang princeton.edu , rdeshmukh ucsb.edu Abstract Green hydrogen has the potential to address two pressing problems in a zero-carbon energy system: balancing seasonal variability of solar and wind in the electricity sector , and replacing fossil fuels in hard-to-abate sectors. However , the previous research only separately modeled the electricity and hard-to-abate sectors, which is unable to capture how the interaction between the two sectors influences the energy system cost. In this study , focusing on China, we deploy an electricity system planning model to examine the cost implications of green hydrogen to fully decarbonize the electricity system and hard-to-abate sectors. Our results reveal that green hydrogen enables a 17 reduction in the levelized cost of a zero-carbon electricity system relative to that without hydrogen however , cost savings hinge on the availability of under ground hydrogen storage capacities and electric transmission expansion. More importantly , coupling hydrogen infrastructure in the electricity and hard-to-abate sectors not only reduces energy costs compared to a decoupled energy system but also makes green hydrogen cost-competitive compared to fossil fuel-based gray and blue hydrogen in China. Keywords : electricity , hard-to-abate sectors, hydrogen, carbon neutral, zero-emission, energy system Introduction Green hydrogen, which is produced by electrolysis of water using renewable energy, has emer ged as a promising long-term energy storage technology that can help integrate high shares of wind and solar and mitigate the high costs of a zero-carbon emission electricity system. 1,2 Despite rapid declines in the costs of solar and wind energy 3 , achieving a zero-carbon electricity system with only solar , wind, and battery storage increases the costs by two- or three-fold relative to a system without a carbon emissions target, which additionally relies on coal and natural gas 4 . This increase in cost is mainly caused by the lack of long-term storage to balance the diurnal and seasonal variation of solar and wind, which results in curtailment of energy generation 5 7 . Instead, when solar and wind are abundant, the oversupply of electricity , which otherwise would be curtailed, can be converted to hydrogen and stored for several weeks before being converted back to electricity when solar and wind generation is insuf ficient to meet demand. Previous research has shown that green hydrogen coupled with abundant under ground storage sites could reduce the cost of zero-carbon electricity systems in the United States 8 and Europe 9,10 by approximately 15 compared to that without hydrogen. In addition to serving as long-term storage in the electricity system, green hydrogen is a promising alternative fuel and or feedstock to replace fossil fuels in hard-to-abate sectors including heavy industry (refineries, iron and steel, ammonia, and methanol) and transportation 11 . Hard-to-abate sectors rely on fossil fuels for both fuel and feedstock due to their physical, technological, and economic characteristics. These hard-to-abate sectors account for about one-fifth of global carbon emissions. While some processes in these hard-to-abate sectors can be electrified and powered by decarbonized grids, electrifying many of the processes in these sectors is economically and technically infeasible 12 . Due to its technology maturity and declining costs, green hydrogen has the potential to be a key solution to decarbonize hard-to-abate sectors 13 . Recent research found that deploying hydrogen in a net-zero energy system reduces the global mitigation cost of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) by up to 22 14 , but used a low temporal resolution which is unable to capture the hourly variation of wind and solar . Due to its potentially cost-ef fective role in a zero-carbon emission energy system, hydrogen may be key to deep decarbonization in countries with substantial greenhouse gas emissions, e.g., China 15 . China has committed to reach the peak of its carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2060 16 . To reach China s net zero target, CO 2 emissions from the electricity and hard-to-abate sectors need to reach zero by 2050 17 . Previous studies have separately assessed the role of hydrogen in China s electricity system 18 20 and hard-to-abate sectors 11,21,22 . However , three key questions remain unanswered. First, what are the impacts on system costs by using hydrogen in a zero-carbon emission electricity system by only expanding the capacities of solar and wind? Specifically , what are the limiting geographical and technological factors for hydrogen development, and how does hydrogen interplay with other low-carbon technologies like nuclear , and carbon capture and storage (CCS), and direct air capture (DAC)? Without hydrogen, previous research found that China s zero-carbon electricity system would need to rely heavily on nuclear , hydropower , and carbon removal technologies. Under this plan, nuclear power capacity roughly quadruples and hydropower capacity doubles by 2050, relative to 2020 levels 23,24 . Coal, natural gas, or bioener gy power plants aggregately provide 10-20 of electricity demand, with their carbon emissions captured by CCS 23 26 . Second, what are the cost implications of coupling green hydrogen in the zero-carbon electricity system with hard-to-abate sectors? By coupling the electricity system and hard-to-abate sectors, green hydrogen from the electricity system not only serves as long-term storage, but also meets hydrogen demand in hard-to-abate sectors. When electricity and hard-to-abate sectors are separately assessed, two important mechanisms in the system cost are not considered: the antagonism effects that increase the system cost because electricity and hard-to-abate sectors
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	Dynamics for droplet -based electricity generators Xiang Wang, Sunmiao Fang, Jin Tan, Tao Hu, Weicun Chu , Jun Yin , Jianxin Zhou , Wanlin Guo Key Laboratory for Intelligent Nano Materials and Devices of the Ministry of Education, State Key Laboratory of Mechanics and Control of Mechanical Structu res, Institute of Nanoscience, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing 210016, China Corresponding author. E-mail: wlguo nuaa.edu.cn ABSTRACT The finding of droplet -based electricity generator1 (DEG) , based on the moving boundary of electrical double layer, has triggered great research enthusiasm2-19, and a breakthrough in instantaneous electric power density was achieved recently19. However, the dynamic mechanism for such droplet-based electricity generators remains elusive, impeding optimization of the DEG for practical applications. Through comprehensive experiments , we developed a dynamic model of surface charge density that can explain the underlying mechanism for the DEG s. The spreading droplet in touch with the top electrode can be equivalently regarded as an additional part of the top plate of the DE G capacitor, and the change of droplet area causes the change of surface charge density of the plates, driving electrons to migrate between the two plates. The insight of the dynamic mechanism paves a way for optimal design and practical applications of DEGs. Keywords: droplet -based electricity generator (DEG) , moving boundary, dynamic model, surface charge density Introduction Harvesting the tremendous energy contained in water directly through its interaction with functional materials has been drawing increasing interesting and research enthusiasm1-19, leading to the emerging hydrovoltaic technology10, convert ing various forms of energy from water to electric power . Among these techniques, the droplet - based electricity generator (DEG) has attracted significant attention, which is capable to generate higher instantaneous electric power density using simpler design. But the underlying mechanism of some EDG s remains elusive . Recently, a mathematical RC circuit model was proposed to describe the electrical signal of a particular EDG quantitatively20, however, it is not the inverse of electrowetting conceptually and is lack of a dynamic understanding . To furthe r develop DEGs and transform them to practical applications, a clear mechanism is vitally required. Here we perform comprehensive experimental investigation using a DEG similar to that reported previously19, which can generate electricity repeated ly by dropping a series of droplets . Based on observation of the dynamics of the droplet by a high -speed camera and measurement of its induced electric signals , we develop a dynamic model of surface charge density for the work ing mechanism of this DEG . The dynamic model paves the way for the further optimization of DEG s. Result s The device structure is illustra ted in Fig.1a, where a 15 mm 2 mm piece of copper electrode lies on the top surface of a PTFE film with a dimension of 25 mm 55 mm 0.03 mm, whose back side was coated with gold electrode . The PTFE film was attached to a class slide for support . As shown in Fig.1b , one tap droplet ( ion concentration around 3mM ) generated a sharp positive voltage pulse up to 143.8 V and a followed negative voltage signal up to -15.1 V (The droplet was release d at a height of 15 cm, while the devi ce was placed with a tilt angle of 35 ). It s worth noting that there was a negative pulse following the positive pulse, which means a back flow of electrons . Before the droplet contact s the electrode , no voltage is generated. At Ttouch, when the droplet touch es the top electrode , a sharp voltage peak is suddenly induced . Following that , the voltage changes while the droplet area changes dynamically (Fig. 1c). The output electric power is high enough to instantaneously light up a light - emitting diodes (LED) , as shown in Supplementary video 1. Droplet PTFE Au Glass slide Cu V 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.11-300306090120150 Voltage (V) Time (s)Vpeak TtouchTmaxTseparate S0 S0 S0 S0 t T touch t Ttouch t Ttouch t Tmax S0 S1 S2 a b c 5mm Figure 1 . Voltage pulse generated by dropping a droplet onto the device . (a) Schematic illustration o f the droplet -based generator. (b) Voltage pulse generated by dropping one droplet . Ttouch, Tmax, Tseparate denote the time one droplet just touch es the top electrode and the voltage pulse appears , the time droplet spreads to maximum area and the time droplet separated from the electrode respectively. Orange region: time interval of droplet spreading. Green region: time interval of droplet shrinking. (c) Observation of the dynamics of the droplet. Here S0, S denote the area of the top electrode and the droplet area subtracted by the area covered with the top electrode respectively. To reveal the relationship between the output signal and the dynamical change of the droplet area, we took a close -up vi ew through a high-speed camera , it was discovered that the area change rate of the spreading droplet dS dt shows a similar - shaped curve compared with the voltage pulse , which suggested there is a close relationship between induced voltage and dS dt . The dS dt and output voltage peak ( Vpeak) also show similar dependence on factors including the height ( H) and frequency of the released droplet, as well as tilt angle ( α) of the (inset of Fig. 2b). As shown in Fig. 2b, the droplet released from a higher height causes a larger maximum of dS dt as a result of the larger velocity when touching the electrode. Meanwhile, the induced voltage peak increases with the increase of the height, showing simi lar trend. Whe n the droplets are released at a faster frequency, dS dt has a larger maximum. This is due to the lack of time for the water film to leave the surface completely before the next droplet falls, and the residue of the water film acting as a lubricant, leading to a
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Electric-Gas Infrastructure Planning for Deep Decarbonization of Energy Systems Rahman Khorramfar , Dharik Mallapragada, Saurabh Amin Abstract The transition to a deeply decarbonized energy system requires coordinated planning of infrastructure investments and operations serving multiple end-uses while considering technology and policy-enabled interactions across sectors. Elec- tricity and natural gas (NG), which are vital vectors of today s energy system, are likely to be coupled in different ways in the future, resulting from increasing electrification, adoption of variable renewable energy (VRE) generation in the power sector and policy factors such as cross-sectoral emissions trading. This paper develops a least-cost investment and operations model for joint planning of electricity and NG infrastructures that considers a wide range of available and emerging technology options across the two vectors, including carbon capture and storage (CCS) equipped power generation, low-carbon drop-in fuels (LCDF) as well as long-duration energy storage (LDES). The model incorporates the main operational constraints of both systems and allows each system to operate under different temporal resolutions consistent with their typical scheduling timescales. We apply our modeling framework to evaluate power-NG system outcomes for the U.S. New England region under different technology, decarbonization goals, and demand scenarios. Under a global emissions constraint, ranging between 80-95 emissions reduction compared to 1990 levels, the least-cost solution re- lies significantly on using the available emissions budget to serve non-power NG demand, with power sector using only 14-23 of the emissions budget. Increas- ing electrification of heating in the buildings sector results in greater reliance on wind and NG-fired plants with CCS and results in similar or slightly lower total system costs as compared to the business-as-usual demand scenario with lower electrification of end-uses. Interestingly, although electrification reduces non-power NG demand, it leads to up to 24 increase in overall NG consump- tion (both power and non-power) compared to the business-as-usual scenarios, resulting from the increased role for CCS in the power sector. The availability of low-cost LDES systems reduces the extent of coupling of electricity and NG systems by significantly reducing fuel (both NG and LCDF) consumption in the power system compared to scenarios without LDES, while also reducing total systems costs by up to 4.6 for the evaluated set of scenarios. Corresponding author. Rahman Khorramfar is affiliated with MIT Energy Initiative (MITEI) and Laboratory for Information Decision Systems (LIDS); Dharik Mallapragada is affiliated with MITEI; Saurabh Amin is affiliated with Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE), MITEI, and LIDS, Massachusetts Institute of Tech- nology, Cambridge, MA, USA. khorram, dharik, amins mit.edu. Authors acknowledge support from MIT Energy Initiative Future Energy System Center, MIT Climate Grand Challenge Preparing for a new world of weather and climate extremes , and MIT Energy Initiative Project Hurricane Resilient Smart Grids. 1arXiv:2212.13655v2 eess.SY 25 Jun 2023 1 Introduction Electricity power and NG are important vectors for energy systems in the U.S. and other regions, with the infrastructure for their supply becoming increasingly coupled over the past two decades. For instance, electricity and NG represented 32 of fi- nal energy demand in the U.S. as of 2021 as compared to 22 in 2005 25 . Over the same period, the share of NG-based power generation in the electricity generation mix doubled to 38 of supply in 2021. This shift away from coal to NG and gradually increasing share of variable renewable energy (VRE) has resulted in the U.S. CO 2emis- sions being 32 lower in 2021 compared to 2005 levels 26 . In many U.S. regions with rapidly growing VRE generation, like California and Texas, the flexibility of NG power plants, both within a day and across days, is often used for managing VRE supply and demand variations and ensuring reliable grid operations 40 . The importance of NG for reliable power systems operations was exemplified by the Texas freeze of February 2021 where outages in the NG system were identified as the primary cause of electricity blackouts 14 . Beyond operations, the planning of electricity and NG infrastructure is becoming more coupled owing to the growing policy interest in electrification for achieving economy-wide decarbonization by mid-century. In this article, we develop a model for joint planning of electricity and NG infras- tructure that considers spatial, temporal, and technologically resolved representation of the system operations. This model enables us to systematically evaluate the path- ways for deep decarbonization of these systems and the other end-use sectors where these vectors are used (e.g. buildings) under plausible technology, demand, and policy scenarios. Economy-wide CO 2emissions reduction efforts further increase the inter-dependency between electricity and NG infrastructure planning, beyond levels seen currently. First, electrification of end-uses, such as heating, in the building sector reduces NG consump- tion in favor of increasing electricity consumption, which can increase peak electricity demand and its timing (e.g. summer to winter peaking shifts 36, 51 .) Second, in- creasing the share of VRE generation in the power sector coupled with the adoption of flexible short-duration and long-duration energy storage resources is likely to alter the cost-optimal operational schedule of NG power plants, and hence impact the pat- tern of NG withdrawals from the gas infrastructure for power generation. Ultimately, these patterns affect the cost-effectiveness of the available NG-based power generation technologies and the incentive to invest in new NG pipelines. In particular, reduced capacity utilization of NG-power generation is expected to promote more investments in higher operating cost, lower capital cost combustion turbines in comparison to lower operating cost, higher capital cost combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plants 18, 38 . Third, the scope and stringency of emissions reduction policies can shape the invest- ments in NG and electricity infrastructure in several ways. For example, policies aimed atcombined emission reductions without specific sectoral emissions reduction require- ments may facilitate emissions trading across sectors to minimize the system cost of decarbonization. Furthermore, the emerging low-carbon technologies will also impact electric-gas network interactions in distinct ways. These include: CCGT equipped with carbon capture and storage (CCS) for power generation, long-duration energy storage (LDES) as well as the use of synthetic or
__label__energy	1 Social Shaping for Transactive Energy Systems Zeinab Salehi, Yijun Chen, Ian R. Petersen, Elizabeth L. Ratnam, Guodong Shi Abstract This paper considers the problem of shaping agent utility functions in a transactive energy system to ensure the optimal energy price at a competitive equilibrium is always socially acceptable, that is, below a prescribed threshold. Agents in a distributed energy system aim to maximize their individual payoffs, as a combination of the utility of energy consumption and the income expenditure from energy exchange. The utility function of each agent is parameterized by individual preference vectors, with the overall system operating at competitive equi- libriums. We show the social shaping problem of the proposed transactive energy system is conceptually captured by a set decision problem. The set of agent preferences that guarantees a socially acceptable price is characterized by an implicit algebraic equation for strictly concave and continuously differentiable utility functions. We also present two analytical solutions where tight ranges for the coefﬁcients of linear-quadratic utilities and piece-wise linear utilities are established under which optimal pricing is proven to be always socially acceptable. I. I NTRODUCTION Recent dramatic increases in rooftop solar, backed by energy storage technologies including electrical vehicles and home batteries, are obfuscating the traditional boundary between en- ergy producer and consumer 3 . At the same time, transactive energy systems are being designed to coordinate supply and demand for various distributed energy sources in an electrical power network 5 , where power lines (or cables) enable electricity exchanges, and communication channels enable cyber information exchanges. With transactive energy systems supporting the rise of the prosumer (i.e., an electricity producer and consumer), new ways are emerging to enable a fair 4 and sustainable renewable energy transition 6 . In the recent literature, transactive energy systems have been designed for a wide-range of power system applications. For example, transactive energy systems are supporting microgrid operations 7 , virtual power plant operations 8 , and the oper- ation of bulk power systems with a proliferation of renewable and distributed energy resources 9 . Such transactive energy systems are primarily focused on market-based approaches for balancing electricity supply and demand, supporting robust frequency regulation throughout the bulk grid 10 . Typically, agents operating in transactive energy subsystem (e.g., virtual power station) are located across a power network and market mechanisms are in place to support individual preferences, enabling agents to compete and collaborate with each other 11 . The aim is a dramatic improvement in power systems operational efﬁciency, scalability, and resilience. The market mechanisms used in transactive energy networks to enable efﬁcient and valuable energy transactions are typically drawn from classical theories in economics and game theory 12 . In standard welfare economics theory 13 it is suggested that resources pricing can be designed to balance supply and demand in a market. In a multi-agent system with distributedresource allocations, agents have the autonomy to decide their local resource consumption and exchange to optimize their individual payoffs as a combination of local utility and income or expenditure. In a competitive equilibrium, resource pricing is achieved when all agents maximize their individual payoffs subject to a network-level supply-demand balance constraint, which in turn maximizes the overall system-level payoff 14 . More speciﬁcally, to balance network supply and demand, resource pricing corresponds to the optimal dual variables associated with supply-demand balance constraint, where the price also maximizes the system-level payoff. The prospect of operating a transactive energy system as a market via optimal pricing under a competitive equilibrium has been widely studied in 15 21 . Early and recent studies in both the economics and engineer- ing literature, are primarily focused on controlling resources price volatility 23 26 , rather than the resources price itself. Consequently, in practice, the optimally computed price to balance supply and demand in a market is potentially not socially acceptable. For example, in February 2021, the whole- sale electricity price in Texas was considered by prosumers to be unacceptably high after widespread power outages. Prosumers that subscribed to the wholesale price reported receiving sky-high electricity bills, which greatly exceeded societal expectations for payment 22 . Several authors have referred to price volatility as a rapid change in the pricing process. The Black Scholes formula 23 and Heston s extension 24 are the most representative models of stochastic price volatility, while others include SABR 25 and GARCH 26 . The authors in 27 argued that previous models did not penalize price volatility in the system-level objective, so they proposed to modify the system-level objective to account for price volatility, whereby constructing a dynamic game-theoretic framework for power markets. The authors in 28 proposed a different dynamic game-theoretic model for electricity markets, by incorporating a pricing mechanism with the potential to reduce peak load events and the cost of providing ancillary services. In 29 , the dual version of the system-level welfare optimization problem was considered, where an explicit penalty term on the L2 norm of price volatility was introduced in the system-level objective, allowing for trade-offs between price volatility and social welfare considerations. In this paper, we focus on resource pricing rather than price volatility, to support the design of socially acceptable electricity markets. We propose a social shaping problem for a competitive equilibrium in a transactive energy systems, aiming to bound the energy price below a socially acceptable threshold. We focus on parameterized utility functions, where the parameters are abstracted from the preferences of agents. We prescribe a range for the parameters in the utility functions,arXiv:2109.12967v1 eess.SY 27 Sep 2021 2 to ensure resources pricing under a competitive equilibrium is socially acceptable for all agents without creating a mismatch in supply and demand. The idea of introducing parameterized utility functions is informed by the concept of smart thermostat agents in the AEP Ohio gridSMART demonstration project 30 , 31 . For transactive energy systems organized as multi- agent networks operating at competitive equilibriums, we establish the following results. We show the essence of the social shaping problem is a
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Flexo -photovoltaic effect and above -bandgap photovoltage in halide perovskite s Zhiguo Wang1, 6, Shengwen Shu2, 6, Xiaoyong Wei3, Renhong Liang1, Shanming Ke1, Longlong Shu1 , Gustau Catalan4, 5 1. School of Physics and Materials Science , Nanchang University, Nanchang 330031 , People s Republic of China. 2. College of Electrical Engineering and Automation, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 350108, People s Republic of C hina. 3. Electronic Materials Research Laboratory, Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education and International Center for Dielectric Research, Xi an Jiao Tong University, Xi an 710049, People s Republic of China 4. Institucio Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Barcelona, Catalonia. 5. Institut Catala de Nanociencia i Nanotecnologia (ICN2 ), CSIC BIST, Campus Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Catalonia. 6. These authors contributed equally: Zhiguo Wang, Shengwen Shu. e-mail: llshu ncu.edu.cn; gustau.catalan icn2.cat ABSTRACT Halide perovskites have outstanding photovoltaic properties which have been optimized through interfacial engineering. However, as these materials approach the limits imposed by the physics of semiconductor junction s, it is urgent to explore alternatives, such as the bulk photovoltaic effect, whose physical origin is different and not bound by the same limits 1-3 . In this context, we focus on the flexo -photovoltaic effect, a type of bulk photovoltaic effect that wa s recently observed in oxides under strain gradients 4 . We have measured the flexo -photovoltaic effect of MAPbBr 3 and MAPbI 3 crystals under bending and found it to be orders of magnitude larger than for SrTiO3, the benchmark flexo -photovoltaic oxide. For sufficiently large strain gradients, photovoltages bigger than the bandgap can be produced. Bulk photovoltaic effects are additive and, for MAPbI 3, the flexo - photovoltage exists on top of a native bulk photovoltage that is hysteretic, consistent with the electrically switchable macroscopic polarization of this material. The results suggest that harnessing the flexo -photovoltaic effect through strain gradient engineering can provide a functional leap forward for halide perovskites. Generating a photovoltaic effect requires breaking space -inversion symmetry ; otherwise photo - generated carriers do not have a preferential direction in which to flow (Neumann principle of symmetry) . In conventional solar cells, spatial inversion symmetry is broken at interfaces, and electron -hole pairs generated at or near the interface s move in opposite directions towards the ir most charge -affine side of the juncti on 5,6 , thereby establishing a photoc urrent . However , spatial inversion symmetry can also be intrinsically broken, without the need for interfaces, inside the bulk of some materials -piezoelectrics which are defined by having non-centrosymmetric crystal structures . Electron -hole pairs photo -excited inside piezoelectrics have different probabilities of drifting in opposite directions and thus generat e a shift current in response to illumination . This is known as the bulk photovoltaic effect 1-3 . In addition, the symmetry of any crystal , piezoelectric or otherwise, can also be broken by bending. This is the basis of flexoelectricity, a linear coupling between strain gradients and polarization first described in insulating dielectrics 7 but known to exist also in semiconductors 8 . Because bending deformation is inherently asymmetric (it creates tension on the convex side of the crystal and compression on the concave one), the so-called flexo photovoltaic effect 4 is theoretically possible in any material under bending . However, so far there has been no measurement of this effect in halide perovskites , a family of materials with large photovoltaic efficienc y 6,9 which are known to be flexoelectric 10 . Here we report the flexophotovoltaic effect of halide perovskite s MAPbBr 3 (hereafter MAPB) and MAPbI 3, and compare them to that of a reference oxide perovskite SrTiO 3 (STO) , used as flexoelectric benchmark 11 . We find that strain gradients can induce large flexo -photovoltaic effects in halide perovskites and can even achieve above -bandgap photovoltages in these materials . The halide -perovskite samples in this study are single crystals made by us (see Methods) and the STO crystals were commercially acquired (TOPVENDOR , Beijin g, China) . Identical Au electrodes were deposited on opposite sides of the crystal s to make symmetric sandwich -capacitor structures , which were illuminated laterally so that the contributions from the two opposite electrode interfaces were of similar magnitude and opposite sign and hence mutually cancelle d. Illumination was provided by LED light with 405 nm wavelength for MAPB and 365 nm for STO , which has a larger bandgap . The maximum light intensity was set to 1000 LUX, as calibrated at the sample location using a photometer . The same photometer, in combination with a polarizer placed between light source and sample , was used to verify that the light emitted by the LED was not polarized see Supplementary video S1 . Rotating the polarizing filter also allowed characterizing the dependence of photovoltaic output on the polarizatio n angle of incident light , which is important to determine the bulk nature of the photovoltaic effect 1,12 . The strain gradients required to induce a flexo -photoelectric response were generated by bending the crystals in single -clamp cantilever geometry . We used the standard conti nuum -mechanics equat ion to calculate the strain gradient from the vertical deflection 13 . The experimental scheme is depicted in Figure 1 -A and the experimental details are provided in the Methods section . In the absence of bending, the close -circuit photocurrent and open -circuit photovoltage of STO and MAPB are found to be negligible , as expected for cubic centrosymmetric materials , and sizeable photovolta ge and pho tocurrent s appear only when the crystal s are bent (Figure 1) . The use of single crystals with a well-defined bending geometry allows quantifying the flexophotovoltaic effect and compare it between different materials . We define the flexophotovoltage coefficien t as 𝑉 VOC 𝐺, where V OC is the open -circuit photovoltage at 1000 LUX, measured in volts, and G is the strain gradient measured in m-1. For STO, we find 𝑉
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	Received day Month , year ; Revised day Month , year ; Accepted day Month , year DOI: xxx xxxx ORIGINAL ARTICLE Consensus-Based Decentralized Energy Trading for Distributed Energy Resources Zhenyu Wang1 Xiaoyu Zhang2 Hao Wang 1 1Department of Data Science and AI, FacultyofInformationTechnology,Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 2School of Business and Management, Shanghai International Studies University, Shanghai, China Correspondence Hao Wang, Department of Data Science and AI, Faculty of Information Technology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia. Email: hao.wang2 monash.eduAbstract Insmartgrids,distributedenergyresources(DERs)havepenetratedresidentialzones to provide a new form of electricity supply, mainly from renewable energy. Resi- dential households and commercial buildings with DERs have become prosumers in the local grids, since they can sell surplus power to others. Researches have been initiated to integrate and utilize DERs through better control and communication strategies. With the advances in the Internet of Things (IoT) technology, unprece- dented coordination among DERs can be achieved to facilitate energy trading and transactive energy management. However, preventing leakage of users information duringtheoptimizationprocesskeepschallengingresearchers,whichdrivesthemto develop privacy-preserving energy management systems. In this paper, we develop a fully decentralized transactive energy management using the consensus-based algorithm. To be speciﬁc, we design a virtual pool for prosumers to trade energy and exchange information with IoT technologies support. The consensus-based algorithmenablesprosumerstoobtaintheoptimalenergyscheduleindependentlyin acoordinatedmannerwithoutrevealinganypersonaldata.Weusereal-worlddatato performsimulationsandvalidateourdevelopedalgorithm.Theresultsshowthatour consensus-based decentralized transactive energy management strategy is feasible and can signiﬁcantly reduce the overall system cost. 1INTRODUCTION The smart grid has been trending across the globe to develop grid intelligence and improve energy eﬃciency, and distributed energyresources(DERs)havebeenpromotedtodeployatresidentialhomesandcommercialbuildingstoprovidenewtypesof sustainable energy sources. DERs, such as solar panels and electric vehicles used locally on the consumption side, transform usersintoprosumersprovidingcleanenergymoreeﬃcientlyandreliably.Beneﬁtedfromtheevolutionoftwo-waypowerﬂow 1 , prosumerswithDERscansaveonelectricitybillsbysellingsurpluspowertothegridorparticipatinginenergytradingwithother prosumers at a relatively lower price. The emergence of prosumers in the grid also enables a paradigm shift toward transactive energy 2 .TofacilitatetransactiveenergymanagementofDERs,suﬃcientinformationexchangewithDERsisoftennecessary. Duetothenatureoflow-ratedatatransmissionbetweenDERs,ithasbeenshownthattheInternetofThings(IoT)technologies (e.g., Narrowband IoT) can outperform other types of network connection (e.g., WiFi) in DER communication 3 . With the developmentofIoTtechnology,thedevice-to-device(D2D)communicationsbecomemuchmoreintelligent 4 ,andDERdevices canbemonitoredandcontrolledmoreeﬀectively 5 .ThisgivesrisetolowerlatencyandmoreconsiderablescalabilityinvariousarXiv:2110.15178v1 eess.SY 28 Oct 2021 2 Wang et al. smart grid applications 6 . This motivates us to study the following problem in the paper: what would be a good transactive energy management strategy that promotes eﬃcient utilization of DERs using IoT communications? 1.1 Literature Review ExistingstudieshaveinvestigatedDERsutilizationandcoordinationatthelocallevelandholisticlevels.Atthelocallevel,DERs withotherelectricappliancescanformanintelligentmicrogridoravirtualpowerplanttoimprovethegrid senergyeﬃciency andreduceenergycostforprosumers 7 .TheenergymanagementsystemcanoptimizetheenergyusagescheduleofHVACand other DERs for each prosumer 8 . At the holistic level, transactive energy management can fully utilize renewable energy and other DERs for the whole grid network. The management processes typically require users to share their energy consumption preferences and then schedule cooperatively through a central optimization system. Luna et al.designed a centralized system to store and share energy among households, which fully utilizes all DERs in a coordinated manner 9 . Tentiet al.developed a cooperativeframeworktoenhancethegrideﬃciencybyreducingthedistributionlossofDERsviacentralcontrol 10 .Yi,Hong and Liu proposed an initialization-free distributed algorithms to eliminate the adaptation work whenever the network structure ischanged 11 .However,thesecentralizedmanagementstrategiesraiseprivacyconcerns,sinceusers privateinformationwould beatriskofleakagewhensolvingaglobaloptimizationproblem.ParticularlyforIoTenvironments,personaldatacanbeeasily exploited 12,13 , and data leakage may occur 14 . Recentstudiesondistributedtransactiveenergymanagementhavebeenwidelydevelopedtoaddressthechallengesofprivacy preservation.Parisio etal.validatedthedistributedcoordinationalgorithmunderthemodelpredictivecontrolframework,which allowed microgrids to perform local optimization sequentially 15 . However, usage information is still disclosed and may be exploited by outside parties. A better way to preserve privacy is to prevent personal data from transmitting to the system. Changet al.employed the contract net protocol and multi-factor methods to carry out the energy exchange optimization alone without including any personal consumption information 16 . Geet al.designed a novel decomposition algorithm to build a decentralized platform 17 , where energy transactions among users can be settled to preserve local load information. Le et al. adopted a distributed neurodynamic algorithm to optimize the energy trading by exchanging information among neighbors 18 . Nizamiet al.developed a two-stage energy management system that enables energy trading between users under a separated transactivemarket 19 .Still,thesuccessoftradingbidsheavilydependsonusers inclinations,whichwouldbringineﬀectiveness in real-world applications. Researchers have also made eﬀorts on adding protection mechanisms to the information transmission. Aitzhan and Svetinovic 20 attempted to anonymize the trading transactions using multi-signatures and blockchain technologies. Yang and Wang 21,22 developedblockchainsystemswithsmartcontractstoimplementdistributedoptimizationalgorithmsfortransactive energy management of smart homes. Chen et al.considered the blockchain technology in economic dispatch problems 23 and peer-to-peerenergytrading 24 tosecurethereliabilitywithoutacoordinator.Lu etal.adoptedPaillierencryptionontheprivate information in the transactive energy system 25 . Nevertheless, both anonymization and encryption will require extra time and resources to protect user privacy, hindering the deployment of transactive energy systems. 1.2 Research Gap and Motivation From the existing studies, we can see that diﬀerent algorithms and technologies have their strengths and weaknesses to pro- tectuserinformation.Mostoftheproposedsystemsincludecentraloperatorstoperformthehigher-leveloptimizationprocess. Yangetal.proposedaconsensus-basedalgorithmtosolvetheeconomicdispatchproblemwithoutanyrelianceoncentralcon- trollers 26 . Zhaoet al.also adopted the consensus-based algorithm to preserve privacy when obtaining the optimal solutions for smart grid energy management 27 . However, both of the studies focused on generation units other than prosumers with DERs.Unliketheabovestudies,weaimtooptimizetheenergyschedulingforagroupofprosumersusingtheconsensus-based algorithm, which would help promote the installation of DERs in residential houses. Celik et al.developed a decentralized energymanagementsystemforsmarthomesbyallowingcoordinatedenergysharing,whichisolatesthepricingmechanismfrom users 28 . Wanget al.designed a decentralized mechanism to incentivize users to share energy through evaluating their contri- butions 29 .Incontrast,ourmarket-likepoolallowsthetradingpricetobeself-adjustedbasedonprosumers tradingdecisions, reﬂectingthepracticeofatransactivemarket.Thus,theneedtoimprovethemanagementprocessofafullydecentralizedsystem Wang et al. 3 stillexiststogainﬂexibilityandprotectuserprivacyatthesametime.OurworkaimstoleveragetheadvancesinIoTtechnolo- gies enabling device-to-device communications to design privacy-preserving decentralized energy management algorithms for DERs. 1.3 Contribution and Paper Organization In this paper, we present a consensus-based decentralized transactive energy management system with the support of IoT technologies. The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows. 1) StructuralFlexibility:Unlikemostexistingstudiesofdistributedenergymanagementusingaﬁxedcommunicationtopology, weestablishadecentralizedtransactiveenergysystemandamarket-likevirtualpoolunderﬂexiblecommunicationtopology. Ourdecentralizedalgorithmenablesprosumerstointeractandexchangeinformationtodeterminetheoptimalenergytrading with their neighbors under an IoT network with diﬀerent D2D communication structures. 2) Privacy preservation: We develop a consensus-based decentralized algorithm that enables users to reach an agreement on energy trading price and quantity over multiple time slots in the operational horizon. The equilibrium prices obtained for consecutiveperiodsleadtoanoptimalsolutiontothetransactiveenergymanagementproblem.Theconsentingprocessonly requiresprosumerstosharetheirenergytradingdatainsteadofthecompleteusagedata,whichwouldpreserveusers privacy. 3) Real-worldpracticability:Wevalidateourdesignedsystemandalgorithmusingreal-worldrenewableenergyandloaddata. The results show that the system cost is reduced by 17:30 , and the cost of individual prosumers can be reduced by up to 71:54 . The results also show the nearest-neighbor D2D communication structure achieves good convergence with much fewer direct connections among prosumers, compared with the all-connected communication structure, demonstrating the practical value of IoT technology for the future decentralized transactive energy system. Therestofthepaperisorganizedasfollows.Section2describesthemodeloftheconsensus-baseddecentralizedtransactive energy system. Section 3 formulates the optimization problems for both standalone and coordinated scenarios of the system. Section4elaboratesonthedesignoftheconsensus-baseddecentralizedalgorithmappliedtotransactiveenergymanagementof prosumers. Section 5 evaluates the proposed system
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	A step towards digital operations - A novel grey-box approach for modelling the heat dynamics of Ultra-low temperature freezing chambers Tao Huanga, , Peder Bachera, Jan Kloppenborg Møllera, Francesco D Ettorreb, Wiebke Brix Markussenb aTechnical University of Denmark, Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Asmussens All e, Building 303B, Kgs. Lyngby, 8000, Denmark bDanish Technological Institute, Gregersensvej 1, Taastrup, 2630, Denmark Abstract Ultra-low temperature (ULT) freezers store perishable bio-contents and have high energy consumption, which highlight a demand for reliable methods for intelligent surveillance and smart energy management. This study introduces a novel grey-box modelling approach based on stochastic differential equations to describe the heat dynamics of the ULT freezing chambers. The proposed modelling approach only requires temperature data measured by the em- bedded sensors and uses data from the regular operation periods for model identification. The model encompasses three states: cham bertemperature, envelope temperature, andlocalevaporatortemperature. Specialattention isgiven tothelocalevaporatortemperature state, which ismodelled asa time-variantsystem, tocharacterizethetime delayanddynamic variations incoolingintensity. Two ULT freezers with different operational patterns are modelled. The unknown model parameters are estimated using the maximum likelihood method. The results demonstrate that the models can accurately predict the chamber temperature measured by the control probe (RMSE 0.19 C) and are promising to be applied for forecasting future states. In addition, the model for local evaporator temperature can effectively adapt to different operational patterns and provide insight into the local cooling supply status. The proposed approach greatly promotes the practical feasi- bility of grey-box modelling of the heat dynamics for ULT freezers and can serve severalpotentialdigitalapplications. Amajorlimitation ofthemod- elling approach isthelowidentifiability,which canpotentially beaddressed byinferringmodel parametersbased onrelativeparameterchanges. Keywords: Ultra-low temperature freezers, Grey-box models, Heat dynamics, Stochastic differential equations, Smart energy system. Corresponding author Email address: taohu dtu.dk (Tao Huang) Preprint submitted to Elsevier June 14, 2023arXiv:2306.07772v1 eess.SY 13 Jun 2023 Nomenclature Variables and parameters CcHeat capacity of the chamber state CeA parameter determining the inertia of the evaporator CwHeat capacity of the envelope state mtCompressor state signal (0 1) MtTrans formed compressor state signal (-1 1) Mac tAccumulated trans formed compressor state signal RceThermal resistance between the chamber and local evap- orator RcwThermal resistance between the chamber and envelope RwaThermal resistance between the envelope and ambient en- vironment Ta tAmbient air temperature ( C) Tc tChamber temperature mea- sured by RTD ( C) Te tLocal evaporator temperature ( C) Te,in tEvaporator inlet temperature ( C) Te,out t Evaporator outlet tempera- ture ( C)Tw tChamber envelope temperature ( C) St( ) Sigmoid function (from 0 to 1) ωtStandard Wiener process XkThe stochastic state variable of the system at time tk YkThe stochastic observation vari- able of the system at time tk L( ) Likelihood function LP( ) Profile likelihood function l( ) Log-likelihood function lP( ) Profile log-likelihood function Abbreviations ACF Auto-correlation Function FDD Fault Detection and Diagnos- tics F 1 Freezer No. 1 F 2 Freezer No. 2 MPC Model Predictive Control MF 1Model for Freezer No. 1 MF 2Model for Freezer No. 2 RTD Resistance Thermal Detector ULT Ultra-low Temperature 2CRS Two-stage Cascading Refrig- eration System 2 1. Introduction Ultra-lowtemperature(ULT) freezersplay avitalroleinpharmaceutical businesses andresearch organizations bypreservingvaluable andperishable items such astissues, blood samples, andorgans. Their significance wasfur- therunderscored duringtheCOVID -19pandemic when ULT freezersplayed acriticalroleinstoringvaccines 1 .Toensurethequalityofstored contents, itisessentialtohave continuousmonitoringandearly fault detection and diagnosis(FDD) ofthethermalconditioninfreezingcham bers. Compared tostandard refrigerators, ULT freezersoperateat-40 Cto -90 C. To reach low temperatures, anULT freezer may consume upto20 kWh day 2 .This isestimated tobethree times more than thedaily power consump tionofanaverageDanishhouse hold 3 .Consequently, ULT freezers areamong themost energy-intensivepieces ofequip ment inhospitals, bio- banks, laboratory build ings, etc. 4, 5 . Given thegrowingemphasisonthe transitiontolow-carboncities, itisalsoimperativetoimprove their energy efficiency andunlock energy flexibility 6, 7, 8 . Apromis ingsolution isto replace thesimpleset-point controlwith advanced model predictivecontrol (MPC) 9, 10 . However, anessentialprerequisitetoachiev ingcontinuousmonitoring, FDD, andMPC inULT freezersistheavailabilityofa reliable dynamic model. Previous studies have attempted to model the heat dynamics of re- frigerator chambers using different approaches. They can be categorized as white-box modelling 11, 12 , black-box modelling 13, 14, 15 , and grey-box modelling. The deterministic white-box models are established based on de- tailed physical descriptions of the systems without including stochastic model parts. They are physically plausible but usually demanding to build and are not useful for statistical estimations of parameters. Black-box models are based purely on data-driven approaches. They are superior in computational load at the expense of physical interpretability. Stochas tic grey-box modelling is an intermediate approach between white - and black-box modelling. Grey- box models are formulated based on physical considerations but explicitly include stochastic descriptions of unexplained variation in data. The models preserve critical physical meanings and leverage the advantage of pure data- driven approaches. The parameters can be estimated and tracked over time, which makes it possible to detect systematic changes linked directly to the operational status. Thus, grey-box models have better generalization prop- erties than other types of models 16 and have proven to be more reliable for practical implementations 17, 18, 19, 20 . Several grey-box models for refrigerator chambers can be found in the literature. O Neill et al. 21 modelled the heat dynamics of cold food stor- age rooms based on ordinary differential equations (ODEs). Leerbeck et al. 22, 23 used stochastic differential equations (SDEs) to formulate the mod- els of the heat dynamics of supermarket refrigerator cabinets. Sossan et al. 24 and Costanzo et al. 25 modelled the heat dynamics of household re- frigerator chambers and evaluated the potential to use the model for simple 3 MPC purposes. These models effectively capture the heat dynamics of the cold chambers. However, they rely on high-quality data from controlled ex- periments, which are intentionally designed to excite the systems for model identification. In addition, these models require various physical quantities as inputs apart from the temperatures, such as refrigerant flow rate, pres- sures at critical locations, and power consump tion. These attributes demand sophisticated sensors and are difficult to measure non-invasively from the re- frigeration loops. All these issues challenge the practical feasibility of these models. Even so, the
__label__energy	Smart Grid Information Security ( IS) Functional Requirement Amy Poh Ai Ling , Mukaidono Masao Department of Mathematical Modeling Analysis, and Simulation , Graduate School of Advanced Mathematical Sciences , Meiji University, Kanagawa -Ken, Japan . Compute r Science Department, School of Science and Technology, Meiji University, Kanagawa -Ken, Japan . amypoh meiji.ac .jp, masao cs.meiji.ac.jp Abstract. It is important to implement safe smart grid environment to enhance people s lives and livelihoods. This paper provides information on smart grid IS functional requirement by illustrating some discussion points to the sixteen identified requirements . This paper introduces the smart grid potential hazard s that can be referred as a triggering factor to improve th e system and s ecurity of the entire grid . The background of s mart information infrastructure and the needs for smart grid IS is described with the adoption of hermeneutic circle as methodology . Grid information technology and security s session discusses t hat grid provides the chance of a simple and transparent access to different information sources. In addition, t he transformation between traditional versus smart grid networking trend and the IS importance on the communication field reflects the criticali ty of grid IS functional requirement identification is introduces. The smart grid IS functional requirements described in this paper are general and can be ad opted or modified to suit any smart grid system . This paper has tutorial contents where some relat ed backgrounds were provided , especially for networking community, covering the cyber security requirement of smart grid information infrastructure . Keywords: smart grid, information security , functional requirement, networking trend, consumer . 1 INTRODU CTION A culture encroachment happens through the interplay of technology and everyday life. Distance is no longer a barrier for communication. Information technology advancement paves way to daily conveniences . Today, we simply can reach someone we know j ust with a touch on the mobile phone, makes the world become thence small. Likewise, in the nearest future all electronic gadgets could be controlled via programmed interface software. The consumption of electricity at home can be monitored with an access password provided. Traditional distribution network management of power supply and loads ha s been conceived as an independent process. However, this traditional approach is changing bit by bit by an increasing number of distributed channels . The distribut ion channel covers the means of renewable energy resources . This will heighten active energy resources like loads, storages and plug -in hybrid vehicles. The emerging of smart grid pushes the market towards a drastically increase in the demand of smart supp ly of energy flow. Grid optimization goes on for system reliability, operational efficiency and asset utilization and protectio n. Smart grid uses two-way communication systems for better monitor ing towards lower energy consumption. In short, we must ensure that the integrators consider on security when combining devices system -wide . The satisfaction of a consumer depends on how strong the IS on the grid can be secured. 2 LITERATURE REVIEW Modeling lifestyle e ffects on energy demand study that the increas e of societal energy con sumption in fluenced by three main items: technical e fficiency , lifestyles and socio -cultural factors . Technological transfer phenomenon is often seen as a crucial part contributes to the solutions of environmental highlights. T he ri sing of real i ncomes and the increasing in abundant of con sumer goods have pricked demand for greater consumption on electronic gadgets in most modernized countries . Nevertheless , the paradigm turns complex when technological transfer phenomenon is view from the perspective of daily life. 2.1 Smart Grid s Potential Hazard Installation of smart grid infrastructure is an i nitiatives of a coutnry that encourage development in clean energy and green technologie However, there are numerous smart grid s potenti al hazards which the government has to take into consideration for the development of preventive action. Hazard in a smart grid is referring to a situation that has the potential to harm the system, the environment or damage the system property. Hazard control is necessary in the effort of elimination or minimization of risk associated with an identified hazard. The identified smart grid s potential hazard are discussed as per below. Natural Disaster . Natural disaster such as strong hurricane, typhoon, volc ano, tornado, flood and earthquake will affect the operation of the smart grid. Yet today, in the early 21st century, terrorist threats, the digital economy, as well as global climate change and recent natural disasters such as Katrina, have all focused attention on the pressing need for an intelligent, nimble, and more reliable power grid 1 . For this reason, a smart grid practice nation n eed new productive activity that leads to the kind of new knowledge and innovation in the distribution of energy suppl y channel in order to escape system down . Security . With the adoption of smart grid, the issue of energy -electrical security in general and IS in particular, will be increasingly important in the future 2 . IS for the grid market cover matters includes automation and communications industry that affects the operation of electric power systems and the functioning of the utilities that manage them and its awareness of this information infrastructure has become critical to the reliability of the power syste m 3 . Community benefits from of cost savings, flexibility and deployment along with the establishment of wireless communications. However, concern revolves around the security protections for easily accessible devices such as the smart meter and the rela ted communications hardware. One of the strongest arguments made for securing smart meters is that consumers will have physical and potentially logical access to the smart meters. Security is generally described in terms of availability, integrity, and con fidentiality. A number of smart g rid IS requirements and regulations are available online, although those guidelines are a significant step in securing the smart grid, but they do not fully address potential vulnerabilities that
__label__energy	A Comparative Analysis of Nigeria s Power Sector with and without Grid-Scale Storage: Future Implications for Emission and Renewable Energy Integration Stanley Aimhanesi Eshiemogie a, , Peace Precious Aielumoh b, Tobechukwu Okamkpa c, Miracle Chinonso Jude a, Lois Efe d, Andrew Nosakhare Amenaghawon a, a Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Benin, Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria b Department of Computer Engineering, University of Benin, Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria c Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State, Nigeria d Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK Abstract This work compar es two electricity scenarios for Nigeria by 2050, focusing on the inclusion and exclusion of electricity storage technologies , using a machine learning -supported approach . A Central Composite Design (CCD) was used to generate a design matrix for data collection, with EnergyPLAN software used to create energy system simulations on the CCD data for four outputs: total annual cost , CO 2 emissions, critical excess electricity production (CEEP), and electricity import. Three machine learning (ML) algorithms support vector regression (SVR), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), and multi -layer perceptron (MLP) were tuned using Bayesian optimization to develop models mapping the inputs to outputs. A genetic algorithm was employed for multi -objective optimization to det ermine the optimal input capacities that minimize the outputs. Results indicated that incorporating e lectricity storage technologies (EST) leads to a 37 increase in renewable electricity sources (RES) share , resulting in a 19.14 reduction in CO 2 emission s. EST such as battery energy storage systems (BESS), pumped hydro storage (PHS), and vehicle -to-grid (V2G) storage allow for the storage of the critical excess electricity that comes with stanley.eshiemogie eng.uniben.edu (corresponding author) andrew.amenaghawon uniben.edu (corresponding author) increasing RES share . Integrating EST in Nigeria s 2050 energy landscape is crucial for incorporating more renewable electricity sources into the energy system thereby reducing CO 2 emissions and manag ing excess electricity production. This study outlines a plan for optimal electricity production to meet Nigeria s 2050 demand, highlighting the need for a balanced approach that combines fossil fuels, renewable energy, nuclear power, and advanced storage solutions to achieve a sustainable and efficient ele ctricity system. Graphical a bstract Keywords: Electricit y storage, machine learning, meta-heuristic optimization, renewable electricity sources 1. Introduction Nigeria s current electricity infrastructure is plagued by significant challenges, with over 60 of the population lack ing access to the grid, and even those connected experience frequent power outages due to insufficient generation capacity (Bello et al., 2023). Despite boasting an installed total generation capacity of 14.38 GW, only 6 GW is available for use (Chanchangi et al., 2023) . This shortfall creates a scenario where there is plenty of potential capacity, but the reality is one of scarcity. Various factors contribute to this gap, including aging infrastructure, maintenance challenges, and gas supply constraints for thermal power plants. Only a fraction of the electricity generated reaches the end -user, with a significant portion, amounting to over 50 , lost during the generation and transmission phases (Adamu et al., 2022; Komolafe Udofia, 2020; Oladunni Juliet, 2019) . Nigeria currently relies on two main sources for its large -scale electricity generation: natural gas and hydro (Abe et al., 2024) . With petroleum resources accounting for as much as 70 of the country s commercial primary energy (Aliyu et al., 2013) , this dependence burdens the environment with high carbon emissions and accelerates climate change. Furthermore, the country is currently unable to meet the electricity demand of 31.2 GW , with a supply of 6 GW (Chanchangi et al., 2023) , leaving over 60 of the population without electricity, and regular load shedding among the population with electricity . Moreover, t his demand has been estimated to rise in the coming years, reaching over 900 TWh in 2050 (Electricity Commission of Nigeria, 2015) . Renewable e lectricity sources (RES) like hydro, solar and wind offer a way forward . These sources have been shown to provide the electricity needed to meet demand in some countries like the USA, UK, Canada, and Japan (Tansel Tugcu Menegaki, 2024) , and have been employed for over 70 electrification of Iceland (International Energy Agency, 2022a) and 90 of Norway (International Energy Agency, 2022b) . In the global drive towards decarbonization, RES have been shown to be very effective alternatives to fossil fuel s. The contribution of RES to the national grid in the Nigerian electricity landscape remains significantly low (Tambari et al., 2020) , with hydropower being the only RES with a substantial contribution to the grid (Owebor et al., 2021) . Recognizing this limitation, Nigeria aims to bridge the generation gap and promote economic growth by further developing hydropower and other RES like wind and solar power . However, the integration of RES solutions faces the challenge of variable supply, as the re is no 24-hour sunlight, and windspeed varies with time of the year and location. This variability leads to critical excess electricity production (CEEP), during times of high renewable energy generation and low demand. RES integration in Nigeria faces several other challenges , including a lack of expertise, uncertainty of financial resources, poor commitment, and a lack of government investment in these technologies (Oyedepo et al., 2018) . Overcoming these challenges is essential for Nigeria to fully realiz e the potential of clean energy and achieve the 2050 climate vision to reduce the current emission by 50 (Department of Climate Change, 2021) . Through investment in grid-scale electricity storage, Nigeria can enhance the flexibility of its grid to accommodate a higher proportion of RES, thus contributing to a more sustainable electricity supply (Matthew et al., 2018a) . To achieve a sustainable electricity future, future power plants need to be adaptable, generating electricity when demand is high , and with GSES also releasing electricity when demand is high and efficiently storing excess electricity from variable renewable electricity sources (VRES) during periods of low demand (Baigorri et al., 2023) ,
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	Through energy droughts: Hydropower s ability to sustain a high output Hanna Ek Fälth1,3 , Fredrik Hedenus1, Lina Reichenberg1, Niclas Mattsson2 1 Department of Space, Earth and Environment, Division of Physical Resource Theory, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden 2 Department of Space, Earth and Environment, Division of Energy Technology, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden hanna.ek.falth chalmers.se Summary Previous research has raised concerns about energy droughts in renewables-based energy systems. This study explores the ability of reservoir hydropower to sustain a high output and, thereby, mitigate such energy droughts. Using detailed modelling, we estimate that Swedish hydropower can sustain 67 92 of its installed capacity for 3 weeks, with higher values possible in springtime. The variation of the sustained output, equivalent to the ca- pacity of 3 4 Swedish nuclear reactors, under-scores the importance of understanding the potential output lev- els when devising strategies to counteract energy droughts. Moreover, we find that regulations imposed on the flows in river bottlenecks hinder higher sustained output levels. With the upcoming renewal of environmental permits for hydropower plants in Sweden, these findings provide valuable insights for policymakers. Further- more, the sustained output capabilities demonstrated in this study challenge the prevalent simplified repre- sentations of hydropower in energy models, suggesting a need for more-sophisticated modelling approaches. Keywords Hydropower, Modelling, Energy systems, Energy droughts, Dunkelflaute event, Resilience, Sustained output, RenewablesarXiv:2405.13530v1 physics.soc-ph 22 May 2024 1 Introduction Variation management strategies are essential in renewables-based energy systems to ensure that the demand can be met at all times despite variations in wind and solar power production. Energy storage, expansion of transmission grids, demand-side management, and dispatchable generation technologies are the key strate- gies discussed in the literature 1 9 . Furthermore, reservoir hydropower has been argued to provide flexibility in renewables-based systems 10 16 . In this study, we analyse the ability of reservoir hydropower to provide capacity during a sustained period of low availability of supply relative to demand, a so-called energy drought . In contrast to many other variation management strategies, hydropower has been used in power sys- tems for decades, and has long been recognised for its operational flexibility. In Sweden, hydropower has contributed significantly to system flexibility by providing diurnal production to follow load, seasonal stor- age capabilities, and grid stability. However, the shift toward renewable energy systems could alter the way in which hydropower is optimally utilised. A recent study by Öberg et al. 17 has revealed a notable shift in hydropower s operational dynamics, in that the conventional daily production cycle is becoming less pro- nounced, influenced by the increasing integration of wind power into the electricity system. This trend suggests a re-evaluation of hydropower s role, which may be transitioning from its traditional focus on meeting intra-day demand fluctuations to accommodating the variability of renewable energy sources on different time-scales. Energy systems that have a large share of renewables face numerous challenges related to variability, ranging from short-term issues such as maintaining frequency control and adapting to hourly load changes to persistent supply shortages due to factors such as low-wind periods or technology failures. Researchers have explored hydropower s role in addressing these challenges across different time-scales. Phillips et al. 15 have developed a framework to assess hydropower s potential for enhancing short-term grid resilience after a disturbance, highlighting reservoir hydropower s critical role in managing disruptions. Yang et al. 18 have quantified the quality of short-term regulation of hydropower and the burden placed on generation equipment, and they have also evaluated burden relief strategies under different future variable renewable energy (VRE) scenarios. Extending the research to intra-day variations, Thapa et al. 16 have examined the capacity of a cascaded reservoir hydropower system to meet daily demand peaks under various operational constraints, and they have identified some key factors influencing intra-day flexibility. However, hydropower s potential to mitigate week-long energy droughts is poorly explored. Such droughts can result from, for instance, weather phenomena 19 24 , technical failures in transmission lines 25, 26 , and emergency shutdowns of nuclear power plants 27, 28 . This study aims to fill this knowledge gap by evaluating hydropower s ability to sustain a high output over extended periods, thereby assessing its capacity to counteract energy droughts. Historical hydropower production data do not show instances of hydropower operating at near-maximum capacity for week-long periods. This could be due to either inherent operational limitations of the hydropower systems or the lack of economic incentives in the past. Therefore, rather than relying solely on historical data, employing a model becomes crucial to understanding hydropower s ability to sustain high output levels over longer periods of time with strong incentives. However, the energy systems models used to date often simplify the representation of hydropower, neglecting key elements such as river network effects, water delay times, and head-dependent production, thereby over-estimating the flexibility of hydropower 29 . Both the Interna- tional Energy Agency (IEA) and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) advocate for more-detailed modelling that can accurately assess hydropower s flexibility 30, 31 . Overly simplified hydropower represen- tations imply that hydropower can operate continuously at maximum output for as long as water is available in the reservoirs. However, is that the case in reality? This study aims to answer this question by employing a detailed model to assess hydropower s sustained output capabilities and to offer insights into its potential to mitigate the impacts of energy droughts. The importance of such an analysis extends globally, especially to regions that are heavily dependent upon reservoir hydropower, like South America, Canada, China, Central Africa, and parts of the USA and Eu- rope. As emphasised above, a detailed representation of the hydropower system is essential for accurate eval- uation of its flexibility. Thus, this paper focuses on Sweden as a case study, leveraging a detailed model of its hydropower infrastructure to examine hydropower s ability to sustain a high level of output for 1 3 weeks. The installed hydropower capacity in Sweden is about 16 GW, and in
__label__energy	Unlocking Innate Computing Abilities in Electric Grids YUBO SONG and SUBHAM SAHOO Department of Energy, Aalborg University, Denmark High energy consumption of artificial intelligence has gained momentum worldwide 1, 2 , which necessitates major investments on expanding efficient and carbon-neutral generation and data center infrastructure in electric power grids. Going beyond the conventional ideation, this article unleashes innate computational abilities in the power grid network circuits itself. By programming power electronic converters (PECs) to mimic biological neurons 3, 4 , we sustainably transform power grids into a neural network and enable it to optimize, compute and make data-driven decisions using distributed PECs. Instead of seen merely as an energy delivery platform, this article conceptualizes a novel application for electric grid to be used as a computing asset without affecting its operation. To illustrate its computational abilities, we solve a affine transformation task in a microgrid with five PECs. By encoding the digital data into the control of PECs, our preliminary results conclude that computing using electric grids does not disturb its operation. From a scientific perspective, this work fundamentally merges energy and computing optimization theories by harnessing inherent high-dimensional computational relationships in electric grids. Key Words: Power electronics Computing Electric grids Neural networks Interconnected neurons in our brain communicate with each other to compute and make decisions. Their computing mechanism is closely followed by an event-driven representation of static and dynamic electrical laws 5 . Although this has transpired into a new generation of in silico neural networks, their applications have been largely limited to nano circuit-based edge computing architecture. With growing concerns of high energy footprint of artificial intelligence (AI) systems, the pursuit of improving their energy efficiency by computing at the edge does not accomplish a significant reduction in their energy demand. Hence, it becomes vital to revisit the fundamental relationships between energy and computing theories for new scientific insights. Going beyond the conventional computing ideation, this article explores untapped computing abstractions in the power flow theory in an existing high-voltage network, i.e., electric grids. With electric grids comprising of multiple interconnected circuits in the transmission lines, power electronic converters (PECs) (Fig. 1C), we fundamentally bridge and map the foundational principles for neural network computations onto a large-scale electric grid infrastructure. Apart from being a platform for energy delivery, electric grids thereby present a compelling potential to be harnessed as a sustainable computing asset. This mechanism can fundamentally uproot the growing energy demands of AIs by performing these computations in an ongoing process of energy delivery without compromising electric grid operation. We start by inspecting the structural and functional resemblances between small-scale neural networks and electric grids in Fig. 1, using a Spiking Neural Network (SNN) (Fig. 1B) that closely mirrors the behaviors of biological neurons (Fig. 1A) 5 . Post-synaptic neuron integrates the weighed inputs from multiple pre-synaptic neurons, and fires an output spike, only when its membrane potential exceeds a specific voltage threshold analogous to the activation function in Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). Notably, electric grids (Fig. 1C), composed of distributed energy resources (DERs) interfaced with power electronic converters (PECs), inherently undergo similar computational operations in its network. Hence, the generated energy between upstream and downstream DERs in Fig. 1C is optimized forth and back using steady-state and differential equations. While Ohm s law governs the scaling between e-mails: yuboso, sssa energy.aau.dk 1 2 Yubo Song and Subham Sahoo Dendrites Output weightInput Spikes Output Spikeswin1 win2 win3Sin1 Sin2 Sin3r2v2r1v1 r3v3r4v4Dendrites wout1 Input weightsPre-synaptic Axons Post-synaptic Axon Biological Neural Networks Computational Neural Networks Electrical Circuits Dendrites Inter-neural connections Transmission linesA B CVthr Stimuli from pre -synaptic neurons Input values spikes Upstream programmable voltages Post-synaptic axons Threshold and output weights Downstream self -admittances Actions of post -synaptic neuron Output values spikes Downstream voltages currentsUpstream DERs Downstream DERsTransmission Lines Fig. 1. Resemblances among (A) biological neural networks, (B) computational neural networks (where a Spiking Neural Network (SNN) is exemplified), and (C) electrical circuits. The keys to the computing abilities of electric grids are governed by electrical laws, that is bridged using circuit theory. We aim to exploit the programmability in electric grids to enable neural computations. voltage and current in proportion to impedance, Kirchhoff s current law describes the mathematical relationship of the weighted voltages translated into currents at each node. Hence, this intrinsic structural analogy facilitated by similar optimization theories between energy and neural networks unlocks a new opportunity for electric grids. The programmability of electric grid components further reinforces this conceptual alignment, as illustrated in an example in Fig. 2. In a neural network (see Fig. 2A), data propagates across layers through linear transformations that can be expressed using its input-output relationship in y Wx b, where Wandbdenote the weight matrix and bias vector, respectively, followed by threshold-based firing or neural activations. Furthermore, backpropagation using wk y xk, which, as previously indicated, has a direct counterpart in electric grids (Fig. 2B) 4 , in the form of admittance matrix elements G gkl NxN ik vl. that follows I GVon a system level. For a system with NPECs, the system matrix is given by I GV, with IandVdenoted by the vector representation of currents and voltages of each PEC, respectively. In neural networks, weights Ware iteratively updated, while the optimization in DC electric grids is achieved by a similar process of updating the voltages Vin accordance with the power management control policy. We implement the computational paradigm in the example system in Fig. 2B through methods outlined in SI Appendix. Thanks to the programmability of the droop gains in the control of DERs using an adaptive parameter Rd,k, the voltage references of PECs are varied accordingly to maintain the rated power flow. To enable computation, digital data features are encoded as asynchronous spikes into the voltage reference Vref,k. Upon being processed by the inherent matrix operations in electric grid, the resultant current variation i5sampled at the downstream DER is then decoded into the output data. Results Building on this rationale, elementary cases are demonstrated using the system in
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Singlet Fission Photovol taics: Progress and Promising Pathways Alexander J. Baldacchino1, Miles I. Collins2, Michael P. Nielsen1, Timothy W. Schmidt3, Dane R. McCamey2, Murad J. Y. Tayebjee1 1School of Photovoltaic and Renewable Ener gy Engineering, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 2ARC Centre of Excellence in Exciton Science, School of Physics, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 3ARC Centre of Excellence in Exciton Scien ce, School of Chemistry, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 1. INTRODUCTION 1 1.1 Early Singlet Fi ssion Studies 1 1.2 The Thermodynamics of Solar Energy Generation 1 1.2.1 Unavoidable Losses from Single Threshold Devices 1 1.2.2 The Potential Benefit of Singlet Fission Solar Cells 3 1.3 Scope of this review 4 2. MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS CHROMOPHORES 5 2.1 Singlet Fission Chromophore Acceptor Combination Requirements 5 2.1.1 Requirements for Singlet Fission Chromophores 5 2.1.2 Requirements for a Singlet Fission Acceptor 6 2.2 Singlet Fission Chromophores 7 2.2.1 Acenes 8 2.2.2 Benzofurans 9 2.2.3 Rylenes 9 2.2.4 Carotenoids 10 3. SINGLET FISSION PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICES 11 3.1 Is Singlet Fission Playing a Role? 11 3.1.1 Quantum Efficiency Methods 11 3.1.2 Magnetic field dependent photoluminescence and photocurrent measurements 12 3.2 Categorization of Singlet Fission Devices 16 3.2.1 Organic Photovoltaic Devices 16 3.2.2 Inorganic Organic Quantum Dot Hybrid Devices 20 3.2.3 Dye-sensitised solar cells 21 3.2.4 Singlet Fission and Perovskite Acceptors 25 3.2.5 Singlet Fission se nsitised Silicon Devices 26 4. PROMISING PATHWAYS 31 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 33 AUTHOR DECLARATIONS 33 REFERENCES 33 ABSTRACT Singlet fission is a form of multiple exciton generation which occurs in organic chromophores when a high energy singlet exciton separates into two lower energy triplet excitons, each with approximately half the singlet energy. Since this process is spin-allowed it can proceed on an ultrafast timescale of less than several picose conds, outcompeting most other loss mechanisms and reaching quantitative yields approaching 200 . Due to this high quantum efficiency, the single t fission process shows promise as a means of reducing thermalisation losses in photovoltaic cell s. This would potentially allow for efficiency improvements beyond the thermodynamic limit in a single junction cell. Efforts to incorporate this process into solar photovolta ic cells have spanned a wide range of device structures over the past decade. In this review we compare and categorise these attempts in order to assess the state of the field and identify the most promisi ng avenues of future research and development. Page 1 of 39 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Early Singlet Fission Studies Singlet fission (SF) is a form of multiple exciton generation wherein an optically prepared singlet exciton splits into two triple t excitons on neighbouring chromophores: 𝑆 𝑆ଵ ሺ𝑇𝑇ሻ 𝑇ଵ 𝑇ଵ (1) 𝑆 𝑆ଵ 𝑇ଵ 𝑇ଵ (2) where S 0 is the ground state chromophore, S 1 is the lowest energy singlet excited state of the chromophore, TT is a coupled triplet pair and T 1 is a chromophore in the lowest energy triplet excited state. This process occurs in organic semiconduc tors that meet the energetic criterion: 𝐸 ଵ 2𝐸 ଵ 𝑛𝑘 𝑇 (3) where 𝐸 ଵ and 𝐸 ଵ are the energies of the first excited si nglet and triplet excitons, respectively. The second term accounts for endothermic fiss ion which can occur for small values of 𝑛 (where 𝑘 and 𝑇 are Boltzmann s constant and the lattice temperature). The first period of SF research was focussed on spectroscopic studies. The first experimental observation of this process was by Singh et al. in 1965, through delayed fluorescence measurements in anthracene crystals1. Comparison between the fluorescence detected from the anthracene crystals under laser excitation indi cated a doubling of triplet generation when switching between the first and second harmon ics of the laser source, at 694nm and 347 nm respectively. Only the latter of these excitation wavelengths was sufficient in energy to induce direct one-photon absorption to the singlet excite d state in anthracene. The interpretation of the result therefore was that singlet excitons in an thracene were undergoing SF to the triplet excited state. Studies of SF systems continued into th e late 1970 s, confirming the presence of SF in tetracene2 5 and perylenes5. Research during this period consisted of spectroscopic investigations of the phenomenon, includin g fluorescence, magnetic field effect, and scintillation experiments. One of the most si gnificant works during this period was the investigation by Merrifield et al. in 19716, which characterised the effect of a magnetic field on the prompt and delayed fluorescence in tetr acene. The description of spin dependent processes in this system have formed the basi s for the magnetic field dependent spectroscopic techniques discussed in Section 3.1.2. In the early 1980s, SF was demonstrated to occur in some organic systems such as photosynthetic bacteria7,8, as will be further discussed in Section 2.1.4. Aside from this, however, SF gradually faded out of the literat ure for many years. This occurred despite Dexter s 1979 suggestion that SF could be employed to augmen t the current of photovoltaic cells9, likely due to the relative infancy of PV te chnology at the time. This review is concerned with the second period of SF research: it s application to solar energy harvesting. 1.2 The Thermodynamics of Solar Energy Generation 1.2.1 Unavoidable Losses from Single Threshold Devices In the early 2000 s, as solar energy technology bega n to mature and be deployed commercially, researchers (particularly chemical physicists or physical chemists) drove a resurgence of Page 2 of 39 interest in SF. Using Dexter s initial proposition as a motivator, research into both the thermodynamic potential of SF-aug mented solar cells and the phot ophysics of SF accelerated. To understand the former, we must first consid er the fundamental thermodynamic limitations of conventional singlet threshold photovoltaic devices using detailed balance. This limit is dependent on the band gap, 𝐸 , and was calculated to be 30 for a band gap of 1.1 eV by Queisser et al. under 6000 K blackbody radiation10 12. In 2011 Hirst and Ekins-Daukes elegantly classified the unavoidable loss mechan isms into
__label__energy	arXiv:2101.10151v1 eess.SY 25 Jan 20211 Pricing Energy Storage in Real-time Market Cong Chen, Student Member, IEEE, Lang Tong, Fellow, IEEE and Ye Guo, Senior Member, IEEE, Abstract The problem of pricing utility-scale energy stor- age resources (ESRs) in the real-time electricity market is considered. Under a rolling-window dispatch model where the operator centrally dispatches generation and consumpt ion under forecasting uncertainty, it is shown that almost all uniform pricing schemes, including the standard locationa l marginal pricing (LMP), result in lost opportunity costs th at require out-of-the-market settlements. It is also shown th at such settlements give rise to disincentives for generating ﬁrms and storage participants to bid truthfully, even when these mar ket participants are rational price-takers in a competitive ma rket. Temporal locational marginal pricing (TLMP) is proposed fo r ESRs as a generalization of LMP to an in-market discriminati ve form. TLMP is a sum of the system-wide energy price, LMP, and the individual state-of-charge price. It is shown that, under arbitrary forecasting errors, the rolling-window impleme ntation of TLMP eliminates the lost opportunity costs and provides incentives to price-taking ﬁrms to bid truthfully with thei r marginal costs. Numerical examples show insights into the effects of uniform and non-uniform pricing mechanisms on dispatch following and truthful bidding incentives. Index Terms Energy storage resources, rolling-window look ahead dispatch, incentive compatibility, out-of-the-mar ket set- tlements, locational marginal pricing. I. I NTRODUCTION With the deepening penetration of renewable generation, demand proﬁles in many electricity markets have shown characteristics of a duck-curve , creating frequent and r apid up down ramp events that pose signiﬁcant operational chal- lenges. One way to support ramping is to use multi-interval look-ahead dispatch that anticipates the rise and fall of demand. Another is to deploy utility-scale storage resourc es that reduce the need for fast ramps by traditional generator s. In both cases, the dispatch model changes from single- interval to multi-interval dispatch models. The standard implementation of a look-ahead dispatch is the rolling-window dispatch, where the operator uses demand and renewable forecasts in the next few intervals to produce a dispatch plan for the subsequent intervals. Onl y the dispatch for the immediate interval is binding. Despite the simplicity and popularity of rolling-window dispatch, pricing generation and consumptions from a rolling-window dispatch is challenging. Wilson points out in 1 that the rolling-window dispatch and forecasting errors can cause pricing distortions, resulting in undervaluation of gener ators intertemporal ramping capabilities. It is widely recogniz ed Cong Chen and Lang Tong ( cc2662,lt35 cornell.edu) are with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Cornell University, USA. Ye Guo (guo-ye sz. tsinghua.edu.cn) is with Tsinghua Berkeley Shenzhen Insti tute, Shenzhen, P.R. China. This work is supported in part by the National Science Founda tion under Award 1809830 and 1932501.that the rolling-window implementation of the standard loc a- tional marginal pricing (LMP) imposes lost opportunity cos ts (LOC) on generators that have to be compensated by out-of- the-market uplifts. Such uplifts are discriminative and la ck of transparency 2 , 3 . A signiﬁcant side effect of such upli fts is that it can create incentives for a generation ﬁrm to bid strategically to maximize its proﬁt 3 . We consider the problem of pricing multi-interval dispatch when utility-scale energy storage resources (ESRs) are par t of the real-time electricity market. Under FERC Order 841 4 , ESRs must be able to participate in the market-clearing process as both buyers and sellers, and they are entitled to receive applicable out-of-the-market uplifts. Because it is difﬁcult to audit the actual costs of ESR operations, it is highly desirable that the pricing mechanism is at some level incentive-compatible, which ensures that ESR participant s bid truthfully. Standard LMP does not guarantee incentive compatibility. Nonetheless, it is reassuring that price-taking and proﬁt- maximizing ﬁrms in a competitive market bid truthfully under the single-interval dispatch and LMP models. When the dispatch and pricing models change from single-interva l to multiple-interval settings, it is not clear how market pa r- ticipants, especially ESRs, react to the change of incentiv es. Will a price-taking ESR participant who bids truthfully und er the single-interval LMP model bids strategically to take advantage of the presence of out-of-the-market uplifts? A. Related Work Although incentive issues arising from multi-interval dis - patch and pricing models have long been recognized 1 , 5 , it is only recently that pricing multi-interval dispatch in the real-time market is brought into attention, with emphasis o n the lack of dispatch-following incentives in standard roll ing- window pricing schemes 6 12 . A particularly relevant work is 10 that considers explicitly the participation of ESRs and the roles of LOC. The lack of dispatch following incentives can be addressed by providing out-of-the-market uplifts to generators. The discriminative and non-transparent nature of such uplifts has led to proposals of improvements, including the price- preserving multi-interval pricing (PMP) 13 , the constra int- preserving multi-interval pricing (CMP) 9 , and the Multi - settlement LMP (MLMP) 7 , 10 . It turns out that, at a more fundamental level, LOC (thus out-of-the-market uplifts) cannot be eliminated by unifor m pricing mechanisms 11 . The necessity of uplifts under uniform pricing schemes highlights the need to understand 2 ramiﬁcations of such uplifts 2 , 14 , especially from an incentive-compatibility perspective. To this end, there i s little published work in the context of rolling-window dispatch with ESR participations. The temporal locational marginal pricing (TLMP) 8 , 11 , 12 is a nonuniform generalization of LMP that prices generation based on its contribution to meeting the demand. Unlike uniform pricing that discriminates generation with out-of-the-market uplifts, TLMP discriminates inside the market clearing process, therefore eliminating the need of uplifts under arbitrary forecasting error. B. Summary of Contributions This paper addresses incentive issues when pricing gen- eration and ESRs under the rolling-window dispatch and pricing models. The main contribution is twofold. First, we show that most uniform pricing schemes cannot provide dispatch-following and truthful-bidding incentives
__label__energy	Corresponding author. E-mail address: zsli sdu.edu.cn (Z. Li). Han Gao and Peiyao Zhao contributed equally to this work and s hould be considered co -first authors. Dynamic Security Region of Natural Gas System s in Integrated Electricity -Gas System s Han Gao, Peiyao Zhao, Zhengshuo Li School of Electrical Engineering, Shandong University, 250061, Jinan, China Abstract In an integrated electricity -gas system (IEGS), the tight coupling of power and natural gas systems is embodied by frequent change s in gas withdrawal from gas -fired units to provide regulation services for the power system to handle uncertainty, which may in turn endanger the secur e operation of the na tural gas system and ultimately affect the safety of the whole IEGS. Hence, it is necessary to accurately and efficiently evaluate the dynamic security region (DSR) of the natural gas system in the IEGS by considering the real -time dynamic characteristics of natural gas systems, which are not satisfactorily handled in state -of-the-art works. To bridge this gap, this paper first conceptionally verifies the necessity of the DSR and establishes its mathematical model. Then, a dimensionality reduction method is proposed for the efficient solution and visualization of the high -dimensional DSR evaluation model. A fast evaluation (FE) algorithm is developed to address the difficulties of the nonconvex dynamic constraints in the reduced DSR model. Finally , the neces sity and notable advantages of the proposed DSR model and FE are verified based on small and relatively large test systems in comparison with common security region models and algorithms. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that comprehen sively presents models and efficient algorithms regarding the DSR of natural gas systems in an IEGS . Index Terms dynamic security region, integrated electricity -gas system, convex relaxation, evaluation algorithm. NOMENCLATURE Variables ud Gas demand of gas -fired unit u ue Output of gas -fired unit u ,psm ,t psm Mass flow rate through segmentation points of pipe p () Gas density at nodes or segmentation points of pipes ,t ps Lifting variable associated with segmentation points of pipe p ,C ctd Gas demand of compressor c at time t Gd Total adjustment amount of gas withdrawa l G ud Adjustment amount of gas withdrawal for gas-fired unit u Sets j Set of nodes in gas network c Set of nodes with compressors g Set of gas well s u Set of gas -fired units p Set of pipes in gas network ps Set of all segmentation points of pipe p t Set of time intervals Parameters Speed of sound (m s) D Diameter of natural gas pipe (m) ld Demand of natural gas load l f Friction factor of natural gas pipes ()uF Gas consumption function of gas -fired unit u ,JJ jj Lower upper bounds for density at node j G gv Output of natural gas well g c Ratio of compressors in natural gas network seg pn Number of segmentation points in pipe p Gk Value of lost load in natural gas systems ,Ck ccaa Natural gas consumption coefficients of compressor c minL Small range for the system linepack level to vary px Length of natural gas pipe segments in pipe p t Time step G ud Dispatch scheme of gas -fired unit gas withdrawal Participation factor for gas withdrawal changing 1. Introduction OWDAYS , there is increasing interaction between power systems and natural gas systems, and the two systems are increasingly collectively considered an integrated electric and gas system (IEGS) 1 . The natural gas deman ds of gas -fired units play a significant role in the natural gas industry and notably impact natural gas system operations 2 3 . Flexible gas -fired unit output is constantly revised to handle uncer tain renewable energy injection in power systems. However, since gas storage is prohibitively expensive 4 , most gas -fired plants do not store fuel on site , and natural gas N 2 is withdrawn in real time from natural gas pipelines 5 , 6 , which raises several issues. Specifically, the uncertain gas withdrawal of gas -fired units may result in pressure fluctuations in gas nodes and even violations of natural gas security constra ints 7 8 . This in turn may trigger a cascade of events, including fuel shedding in gas -fired units and shortages in the electricity supply 9 . Therefore, it is essent ial to accurately evaluate the security region (SR) of the natural gas system in IEGSs (i.e., the gas withdrawal range of gas - fired units without violating natural gas security constraints) to ensure the reliable operation of IEGSs. However, accurately eva luating the SR of a natural gas system is challenging due to the complex power -gas coupling and natural gas system dynamics. Properly taking into account the unique characteristics of natural gas systems in IEGSs is critical to achieving accurate SR evalua tion. To that end, the following issues should be taken into consideration: Issue -1 (dynamic s introduced by power -gas coordination) Gas-fired units are widely used to balance the fluctuating injection in pow er systems, and in turn, this gas consumption of units incurs f luctuating gas withdrawal in natural gas systems 10 . However, unlike steady -state power system s, natural gas systems with slow dynamics typically cannot reach steady -state within intraday operation interval s, e.g., 15 minutes 6 . Therefore, the SR of natural gas systems in IEGSs should be evaluated with consideration of the dynamics of natural gas systems. Issue -2 (coupling of gas withdrawal for gas -fired units) The output of the generating units changes affinely according to the regulation of automatic generation control (AGC)1 to maintain the real -time power balance 11 . Accordingly, the gas consumption s of the units are interrelated, and the coupled ga s withdrawal of gas -fired units should be considered when evaluating the SR. Issue -3 (heterogeneous management mechanisms) Dispatch schemes for gas wells in natural gas systems typically have a time granularity of 1
__label__energy	1 Short-term Electric Load Forecasting Using TensorFlow and Deep Auto-Encoders Xin Shi ,Student Member, IEEE Abstract This paper conducts research on the short-term electric load forecast method under the background of big data. It builds a new electric load forecast model based on Deep Auto-Encoder Networks (DAENs), which takes into account multidimensional load-related data sets including historical load value, temperature, day type, etc. A new distributed short- term load forecast method based on TensorFlow and DAENs is therefore proposed, with an algorithm ﬂowchart designed. This method overcomes the shortcomings of traditional neural network methods, such as over-ﬁtting, slow convergence and local optimum, etc. Case study results show that the proposed method has obvious advantages in prediction accuracy, stability, and expansibility compared with those based on traditional neural networks. Thus, this model can better meet the demands of short- term electric load forecasting under big data scenario. Index Terms big data, short-term electric load forecast, Ten- sorFlow, Deep Auto-Encoder Networks (DAENs), Back Propa- gation Neural Networks (BPNNs), Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) I. I NTRODUCTION SERVING as the basis of the planning and dispatching of power systems, short-term electric load forecasting is the premise of achieving automatic generation control and economic dispatching. Its accuracy has an impact on the safety, stability, and economy of the normal operation of the power systems. An accurate load forecast method can reduce operating costs, keep power markets efﬁcient, and provide a better understanding of the dynamics of the monitored systems 1 2 . Therefore, it is of great importance to study short-term load forecast methods. For a long time, electric load forecast methods have been researched by scholars at home and abroad, which in general fall into two categories, traditional methods and artiﬁcial intelligence methods. The former mainly include time series 3 4 , regression 5 and grey system theory 6 7 , etc. They have simple models and fast calculation speed, but cannot simulate electric load under complicated situations, leading to an unsatisfying prediction accuracy. The latter mainly refer to some machine learning methods, including back propaga- tion neural networks (BPNNs) 8 9 , support vector machine (SVM) 10 11 , extreme learning machine (ELM) 12 13 , etc. The prediction accuracy has been improved to some extent by using those intelligent methods. However, those intelligent methods have limited learning ability and are not capable of transforming and processing large data samples, which can Department of Electrical Engineering, Center for Big Data and Ar- tiﬁcial Intelligence, State Energy Smart Grid Research and Development Center, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 200240, China.(e-mail: dugushixin sjtu.edu.cn.)easily lead to over-ﬁtting, slow convergence, local optimum, and many other problems. As a result, the prediction accuracy has certain limitations, which cannot meet the demands and challenges of big data analysis. With the emergence of big data in the power sector, load- related data dimensions continue to increase, which brings new challenges to the electric load forecast work. We must ﬁnd a new method to effectively achieve the goal of electric load forecasting and analysis under this scenario. In 2006, Geoffrey Hinton from Canada proposed the method of deep learning 14 15 , which opened a new era of deep learning in academic and industrial ﬁelds. Deep Auto-Encoder Networks (DAENs), a deep learning method, conducts feature transfor- mation on training samples, layer by layer, to build a machine learning model with multiple hidden layers, projecting the feature representation in the original scenario into a new one, which makes it easier to predict, and ultimately improves pre- diction accuracy. Compared to methods that construct features by artiﬁcial rules, the DAENs method is better at depicting the rich inner information of data, effectively meeting the demands of big data analysis. It has been the hot spot of international machine learning research ﬁeld 16 17 18 , but few attempts have been made to introduce it in the application of electric load forecasting. A. Contributions In this paper, based on multidimensional load-related data such as historical load values, temperature, day types etc., a new distributed short-term load forecast method using Tensor- Flow and DAENs is proposed. In Sect. II we give the mathe- matical background and theoretical foundation. The training processes of DAENs include pre-training and ﬁne-tuning, which are introduced and analyzed in detail. In Sect. III, we ﬁrst introduce TensorFlow. Then we construct load forecast model based on DAENs. Considering the complex structure of DAENs and high real-time demand of load forecasting, we designed a parallel algorithm ﬂowchart using the multi- GPU mode analysis framework of TensorFlow, which greatly enhances the calculation speed. Load-related data is processed using the normalization formula, fuzzy membership function, and weighted one-hot encoding method. The evaluation index of load forecasting is deﬁned at the end. In Sect. IV, with load-related data provided by European Smart Technology Network(EUNITE), the forecast method proposed in this paper is validated and its advantages are highlighted. Furthermore, comparison of this method with the method based on BPNNs and ELM is made. In Sect. V, we report our conclusions.arXiv:1907.08941v1 eess.SP 21 Jul 2019 2 B. Related Works Auto-Encoder networks have been widely explored in the past years. Reference 19 introduces a new method to an- alyze the human immunodeﬁciency virus using a combi- nation of Auto-Encoder networks and genetic algorithms, which outperforms the conventional feedforward neural net- work models and is a much better classiﬁer. Reference 20 extracts and composes robust features by using denoising Auto-Encoders, which shows surprising results. In reference 21 , an algorithm that aids the curation of gene annotations and predicts previously-unidentiﬁed gene functions is designed by using deep Auto-Encoder neural networks. Experiments show that deep Auto-Encoder neural networks achieve better performance than other standard machine learning methods, including the popular truncated singular value decomposition. Reference 22 proposes a novel method for modeling the excitation through an Auto-Encoder, which produces speech of higher perceptual quality compared to conventional pulse- excited speech signals. Reference 23 uses Auto-Encoder neural networks for water demand predictive modeling. In the research done above, Auto-Encoder networks have been
__label__energy	CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING THE MODELLING OF WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS I. Szeidert, O. Prostean, I. Filip, N. Budisan Department of Automation a nd Industrial Informatics Faculty of Automation and Computer Science Bd. V. Parvan, No.2, 1900 Timisoara, ROMANIA Tel: 40 256 403237 Fax: 40 256 403214 E-mail: siosif aut.utt.ro Abstract: The above paper presents some considerations regarding the modelling of wind energy conversion systems (WECS). There are presented practical problems of grid integration of wind turbines, the usage of general system models, respectively of RMS (root mean squares) models. The are presented models of some WECS components and related, such as: a probabilistic 2D model for instantaneous wind velocities, aerodynamic model of wind turbine, rotating inertia mode, asynchronous machine model, grid model. This paper only presents mode ls used in different WECS, models that can be easily simulated with adequate simulation tools such as Matlab Simulink. Keywords : wind energy conversion systems (WECS), modelling and simulation, RMS (root mean squares) models 1. Introduction 1. 1. Practical problems in grid integration of wind turbines Practical problems in grid integration of wind turbines define special cases in power system analysis and design. These problems are very often characterised by - Power systems which are composed of equipment and components from different fields of engineering, such as electrical, mechanical, thermodynamic, automatic control and other related fields. This means for a comprehensive analysis approach that all relevant components have to be considered with a similar level of detail and system models can not be restricted to electrical components primarily. - Time dependent multidimensional system environment. This means the simulation of the system environment should be part of the analysis approach. This subject becomes difficult if random and additionally correlated environment parameter disturb the power system. 6 1.2. The Engineering point of view Phenomena in power systems are related to different types of parameter , time domain and location as it is well known from empirical observations. A very rough systematisation distinguishes these phenomena with respect to the following dimensions: - the type of the relevant power system parameter (electromagnetic, mechanic, thermodynamic etc.) - the relevance of the location in continua (magnetic-, electric-field etc.) - the behaviour of the parameter in time (instantaneous-, mean-, root-mean-square (RMS) values). Models and methods developed in power system engineering have been oriented at the different character of the targeted area. Within the MATLAB product-family the Power System Engineering Toolset, Part RMSDynamic Simulation is devoted to the RMS- Dynamic of power systems and the Power System Blockset targets the Transient Dynamic primarily. An additional aspect of phenomena in power systems is related to the 3-phase character of the electrical equipment because of the dominating nature of three phase power systems. Models for transient-dynamic simulations are based on differential equations for instantaneous values and distinguish between the different phases of the electrical equipment. 2 4 Models for RMS-Dynamic simulations neglect the transients in the grid related to leakage flux linkages and electric fields but not those transients related to the rotor-flux linkages of rotating electrical machine. This approach leads to models for the electrical components of the power system with the following main characteristics: - the grid including the stator of the rotating machine will be represented by algebraic complex phasor equations (models in frequency domain which considers only one phase) - the rotor of the rotating machine will be represented by ordinary differential equations (models in time domain, distinguishing different phases). The different modelling approaches express a theoretical difference behind the Power System Engineering Toolset and the Power System Blockset. 1.3. The mathematical point of view The general concept which guidelines the approach applied in this paper in a formal sense is the concept of time-scale-modelling. If continua phenomena will be neglected, the system-model will have the following principle structure in time domain: - sets of ordinary and mostly non-linear differential equations which can be expressed in the state space form model the power system - deterministic functions depend on time as well as multidimensional and multivar iate random processes in time model the system environment. Models of this type can be linearised for model analysis purposes. The most important consequence dealing with models of this type is the necessity to solve linear or nonlinear sets of equations during the integration- process of the differential equations. Figure 1. General model structure. The environment of the power systems will be modelled using time series for electrical loads (real and reactive power) as well as for real environmental parameter like the wind speed. In case of deterministic functions the time series will directly be calculated from those functions. (Figure 1). In case of random time series (e.g. the wind speeds affecting wind turbines) the problem is much more difficult because of the necessity to match specific random properties of those parameter sufficiently. There are three general requirements in this respect: - each time series shell fulfil a specified probability density functions (PDF) as well as a specified power spectral density functions (PSD) - between two time series a specified cross spectral density function (CSD), expressed via the coherence function and the angle of the complex transfer function shell be fulfilled - the time series should be steady state (with respect to their random properties) from the start of the simulation to avoid a not desired length of the simulation time. The final structure of power system models in the RMS-time domain will have the following general formal structure (Figure2): Figure 2.General structure of RMS-Models 2. Theoretical description of specific models used 2.1 Probabilistic 2D model for instantaneous wind velocities In Figure 3 and Figure 4 is presented a probabilistic 2D model for instantaneous wind velocities. Figure 3. Probabilistic 2D model for instantaneous wind velocities An ergodic random process model can be specified by: Probability Density Function (PDF) for wind velocity in each grid point Power Spectral Density function (PSD) for wind velocity in each grid point Spectral Coherence function (COH) for wind velocities in two grid points Spectral angle of transfer function (angle_TF)
__label__energy	1 Confirmation of the monoclinic Cc space group for the ground state phase of Pb(Zr 0.525Ti0.475)O3 (PZT525): A Combined Synchrotron X-Ray and Neutron Powder Diffraction Study Ravindra Singh Solanki1, Sunil Kumar Mishra2, Anatoliy Senyshyn3, Songhak Yoon4, Sunggi Baik4, Namsoo Shin5 and Dhananjai Pandey1 1School of Materials Scien ce and Technology, Indian Institu te of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi-221005, India 2Research and Technology Development Ce ntre, Sharda University, Greater Noida- 201306, India 3Forschungsneutronenquelle Heinz Maier-Leib nitz (FRM II), Tec hnische Universit ሷt Mݑሷnchen, Lichtenbergstrasse 1, D-85747 Garching bei M ݑሷnchen, Germany 4Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Korea 5Pohang Accelerator Laboratory, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Korea Abstract The low temperature antiferrodistortive pha se transition in a pseudo-tetragonal composition of PZT with x 0.525 is investigat ed through a combined synchrotron x-ray and neutron powder diffraction study. It is sh own that the superlattice peaks cannot be correctly accounted for in the Rietveld re finement using R3c or R3c Cm structural models, whereas the Cc space group gives excelle nt fits to the superl attice peaks as well as to the perovskite peaks. This settles at re st the existing cont roversies about the structure of the ground state phase of PZT in the MPB region. 2 Lead Zirconate Titanate, Pb(Zr xTi1-x)O3 (PZT), is commercially used as a piezoelectric sensor and actuator material1 due to its very high value of piezoelectric coefficients in the vicinity of a morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) at x ڌ0.520 in the phase diagram. The various stable phases of PZT at room temp erature correspond to tetragonal1 (space group P4mm), pseudotetragonal monoclinic2, 3 (space group Cm), pseudorhombohedral monoclinic-I2 (space group Cm), rhombohedral1 (space group R3c) or pseudorhombohedr al monoclinic-II2 (space group Cc) and orthorhombic1 (space group Pbam) structures stable for compositions with x د0.515, 0.520 دxد0.530, 0.530 xد0.620, 0.620 x د0.940 and x ذ0.940, respectively. The MPB separates the stability fields of tetragonal1 and pseudorhombohedral monoc linic phases th rough a thin region of a pseudotetragonal monoclinic phase2. The pseudotetragonal monoclinic phase of PZT was discovered by Noheda et al3 for x 0.520 in a low te mperature synchrotron X- ray diffraction (SXRD) study. They presente d evidence for a tetragonal to monoclinic phase transition at T 250K. It is now known th at this pseudotetragonal monoclinic phase gets stabilized at room temperature for x 0.5254, 5. Soon after the discovery by Noheda et al, Ragini et al6 and Ranjan et al7 presented evidence for an antiferrodistortive (AFD) phase transition at T ڌ210K using low temperature el ectron diffraction, neutron diffraction, dielectric and elas tic constant measurements for the same PZT composition (x 0.520). This AFD transition is accompan ied with unit cell doubling caused by antiphase rotation of oxygen octahedra in the neighbouring unit ce lls leading to the appearance of superlattice reflections which ar e visible in electron and neutron diffraction patterns only. Noheda et al3 missed this superlattice phase in their SXRD studies as the superlattice reflections are not discernible in SXRD patterns due to weaker sensitivity of 3 X-rays to small changes in oxygen positi ons caused by antiphase tilting of oxygen octahedra at the AFD transition. The space gro up of this superlattice phase was soon shown to be Cc by Hatch et al8 and confirmed later on by Ranjan et al9 and Noheda et al10 who also showed that this phase coexists with the monoclinic Cm phase down to the lowest temperatures well below the AF D transition temperature for x 0.520. The existence of the low-temperatur e superlattice phase in the Cc space group was confirmed by other workers also in their transmission electron microscopy (TEM)11,12 and neutron powder diffraction studies as a function of temperature10, 13 and pressure13 and was nearly accepted as the true ground state of PZT. Ho wever some authors reported that the true ground state of PZT in and around the MPB is rhombohedral in the R3c space group and it coexists with the monoclinic phase in Cm space group over a wide composition range 14-20. Thus the true symmetry of the low temperature phase of PZT has become controversial as evidenced by several recent publications on this system17-23. The main objection against the Cc space group is the non-observation of the (1 2 1 2 1 2) pc (pc stands for pseudocubic indices) superlatti ce peak which is permitted by the Cc space group but is extinguished in the R3c space group. However, the non-observation of the weak (1 2 1 2 1 2) pc superlattice peak in the neutr on powder diffraction patterns is as enigmatic as the non-observation of the rather intense neutron (3 2 1 2 1 2) pc, (3 2 3 2 1 2) pc and (5 2 1 2 1 2) pc superlattice peaks in the sync hrotron X-ray powder diffraction patterns. Most likely, it is because the intensity of these reflections is too small24 (د0.1 of the most intense (110) pc peak) to be observable above the background counts for both the neutrons and the X-rays. In view of this, we recently24, 25 adopted an alternative strategy for resolving the Cc versus R3c controversy for th e ground state of PZT. We 4 analyzed the profile shape of the intense (3 2 1 2 1 2) pc peak which is a singlet for the R3c space group but a multiplet for the Cc space group. In order to be able to analyse the profile shape of this superlattice pea k, we used higher wavelength neutrons ( λ 2.5Å) to increase the angular separation of the (3 2 1 2 1 2) pc superlattice profile from the neighbouring intense (111) pc perovskite peak and we also replaced 6 Pb2 by a smaller cation Sr2 to increase the antiphase tilt angle and, hence, the intensity of the superlattice peaks. Using these two innovations, we could convincingly reject th e R3c space group in a pseudotetragonal (Pb 0.06Sr0.94)(Zr 0.530Ti0.470)O3
__label__energy	Observational daily and regional photovoltaic solar energy production for the Netherlands B. P. M. Laevens 1;2, O. ten Bosch1, F. P. Pijpers1and W.G.J.H.M. van Sark3 1Statistics Netherlands, The Hague, The Netherlands 2Ministry of Economic Aﬀairs and Climate Policy, The Hague, The Netherlands 3Copernicus Institute of Sustainable Development, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands March 24, 2021 Abstract This paper presents a classical estimation problem for calculating the energy generated by pho- tovoltaic solar energy systems in the Netherlands, on a daily, annual and regional basis. We identify two data sources to construct our methodology: pvoutput, an online portal with solar energy yield measurements, and modelled irradiance data, from the Royal Netherlands Meteo- rological Institute. Combining these, we obtain probability functions of observing energy yields, given the irradiance, which we then apply to our PV systems database, allowing us to calculate daily and annual solar energy yields. We examine the variation in our daily and annual estimates as a result of taking diﬀerent subsets of pvoutput systems with certain speciﬁcations such as ori- entation, tilt and inverter to PV capacity ratio. Hence we obtain speciﬁc annual energy yields in the range of 877 946 kWh kWp and 838 899 kWh kWp for 2016 and 2017 respectively. The current method used at Statistics Netherlands assumes this to be 875 kWh kWp , meaning the yields were underestimated and overestimated for 2016 and 2017 respectively. Finally, we trans- late our national estimates into solar energy yields per municipality. This research demonstrates that an irradiance based measure of solar energy generation is necessary to obtain more accurate energy yields on both a national and regional level. bpm.laevens cbs.nl 1arXiv:2003.01728v2 stat.AP 23 Mar 2021 1 Introduction At the 2015 Paris climate agreement, part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change , nations committed themselves to limiting temperature rise to 1:5 C, relative to pre-industrial levels(UN, 2019). Around the world, nations are devising policies to transition away from polluting fossil fuels towards clean and renewable energy sources. A recent update, presented by the European Commission, as part of the European Green Deal policy, set a target of 55 greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2030 (EC, 2020a,b). In 2018, the share in renew- ables in the Netherlands stood at 7.2 (EUobserver, 2020), with the earlier EU 2020 target of 14 probably not fulﬁlled (EC, 2017). Statistics Netherlands (SN) is the body responsible for publishing renewable energy statistics in the Netherlands (SN, 2019c). With policy measures, targeted at increasing the renewables share, starting to take eﬀect, attention to detailed and accurate measurements of renewable energy yields will become ever more important. The Center for Big Data Statistics at SN was established in 2016 to examine and develop new methods for oﬃcial statistics based on new and alternative data sources. In this paper, we report on a new method to estimate regional and national, daily and annual solar energy yield for the Netherlands. The emphasis of our new method lies in using and combining readily available measured energy yield data from photovoltaic sytems in the Netherlands as well as meteorological data, allowing us to generate, for the ﬁrst time, a weather based energy yield estimate. In section 2 we provide the reader with an introduction to the ﬁeld of solar energy, followed by a description of the new data sources (and cleaning) that are used in our method in section 3. We outline in detail our methodology in section 4, paying particular attention to aspects of representativeness in section 5. Our results are discussed in section 6, before oncluding in section 7. 2 Solar Energy In section 2.1, we introduce the current solar yield method at SN as well as a few concepts relating to solar energy. This will also enable us to contrast the current method with our newly proposed one, which we outline in section 2.2. 2.1 Current method Photovoltaic(PV)systemsintheNetherlandshaveseenanexplosivegrowthoverthepastdecade. In just ten years the installed capacity has risen from 0.09 Gigawatts (GW) in 2010 to 6.9 GW in 2019 (SN, 2019c). Most of the systems are recorded in a PV systems database, containing exact location ( L), the system s installation date ( d) and its power or systemsize ( P). In the past, small households made up the bulk of the PV systems, but as of 2019 just over half of the capacity is made up of large PV systems ( 15kWp) such as solar parks (SN, 2019a). Subsidy schemes for large PV systems have meant that their energy yields are recorded on a monthly and hence annual basis (CertiQ, 2020). The energy yields of small households, by contrast, are not collected nationally. A framework for measuring the total energy yield from household PV systems was introduced to combat the paucity of measurement data and is outlined in the Netherlands Enterprise Agency s protocol of renewable energy (RVO and SN, 2015). At the centre of this framework is an equation (1) that translates the average installed PV capacity in a speciﬁc year, expressed in Watts ( W) or Watts peak ( Wp), into an average annual energy yield ( Ya), expressed in units of energy e.g. 2 Watt hours ( Wh), through means of a representative constant, denoted as the speciﬁc annual yield (Ys;a). With Watt peaks we mean the number of Watts produced at peak power. Ya 0 BB N1P n 1Pn N365P n 1Pn 21 CCAYs;a (1) wherePnis the system size of one PV system in the database, N1andN365the number of PV systems in the database on the ﬁrst and last days of the year respectively. Finally Ys;ais the speciﬁc annual yield, currently ﬁxed at 875 kWh kWp (van Sark et al., 2014). Two datasets of PV systems performances from 2012 and 2013 were used to determine Ys;a, yielding 877 140and874 140kWh kWp for both years in question(van Sark et al., 2014). While this research pinpointed a value for Ys;ain those years, it could be improved upon in terms of corrections for lack of representativeness. It is known from the literature that
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Peer-to-Peer Energy Cooperation in Building Community over A Lossy Network Cheng Lyu y, Youwei Jiayand Zhao Xu z Department of Electrical Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong yDepartment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China zShenzhen Research Institute and Research Institute for Smart Energy, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Email: cheng.lyu connect.polyu.hk, jiayw sustech.edu.cn, eezhaoxu polyu.edu.hk Abstract Energy management of buildings is of vital impor- tance for the urban low-carbon transition. This paper proposes a sustainable energy cooperation framework for the building community by communication-efﬁcient peer-to-peer transaction. Firstly, the energy cooperation of buildings is formulated as a social welfare maximization problem, in which buildings may directly trade energy with neighbors. In addition, considering privacy concerns and communication losses arisen in peer-to- peer energy trading, a communication-failure-robust distributed algorithm is developed to achieve the optimal energy dispatch solutions. Finally, simulation results show that the proposed framework substantially reduces the total cost of the building community and the algorithm is robust to communication losses in the network when only part of links (even one link) are active during iterations. Index Terms Peer-to-peer energy cooperation, building com- munity, distributed optimization, communication loss. I. I NTRODUCTION Buildings consume more than 40 of total energy use reported by United Nations Environment Program 1 , and the building sector in Hong Kong even amazingly accounts for over 93 of total electricity consumption 2 . In many coun- tries, conventional buildings are indeed undergoing a transition to smart energy buildings, to enhance the energy efﬁciency by heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HV AC), energy storage system (ESS), and renewable energies (e.g., wind energy and solar energy). Recently, the concept of shifting from energy management of individual buildings to energy cooperation in the building community becomes popular. Particularly, the development of peer-to-peer technology makes peer-to- peer energy cooperation become realizable and promising in collaboratively managing the local energy while preserving the information privacy 3 . The peer-to-peer energy trading framework in smart grids has been investigated in many works. The existing results can be roughly classiﬁed into two groups: centralized models and distributed models . In the ﬁrst class, the peer-to-peer trading is implemented, to some extents, in aid of a coordinator in the network. For example, 4 proposes a peer-to-peer trading This work was supported in part by National Natural Science Foundation of China (71971183 and 72071100), Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Fund (2019A1515111173), Young Talent Program (Department of Education of Guangdong) (2018KQNCX223) and High-level University Fund (G02236002).platform for residential houses to coordinate the demand re- sponse with renewable energy generations. With the increasing integration of renewables, traditional passive consumers are becoming prosumers that actively manage their production and consumption of energy 5 . The concept of prosumer preference is introduced in 5 to distinguish heterogeneous energy sources in the peer-to-peer energy market. In the second class, the information privacy concerns of agents are respected using distributed optimization. All participants in the cooperation aim to seek more incentives in importing or exporting energy. In this regard, 6 divides the community agents into buyers and seller, and exploits the game theory to model the competition among sellers, the dynamics of buyers, and the interaction between buyers and sellers. Likewise, the non-cooperative Stackelberg game theory is used in 7 to model the iterative energy trading processes. Moreover, the existence of Stackelberg equilibrium is mathematically proved, under which the social operational cost is minimized. Similar works are presented in 8 that adopts the cooperative coalition game to enhance the energy use efﬁciency by directly trading with neighboring agents. In general, the distributed models are reasonable and admirable in implementing the peer-to-peer energy cooperation, since participants are considered as self- interested when engaging in the energy cooperation. Among the recent literature, the bilateral payment issue is still challenging to resolve in the trading models. To determine a fair scheme to share the cost savings, 9 proposes a general- ized Nash equilibrium framework to model the behaviors of all participants in allocating the proﬁts. In 10 , Nash bargaining method is employed to achieve a fair payment solution based on market power, deﬁned as the total peer-to-peer trading energy over the horizon. Nevertheless, the detailed energy price at very time slot is rather unclear, as the underlying idea is to allocate the cost savings according to their total contribution. In this paper, an optimal peer-to-peer pricing scheme is proposed using the Lagrangian multipliers with the energy trading balance constraints. While many works present various models for the peer- to-peer energy trading framework, few of them address the possible communication losses arisen in the trading processes. In fact, peer-to-peer transaction introduces a large burden on communication links due to iterative message exchanges in the negotiation process 11 . Indeed, the distributed system mayarXiv:2105.08280v2 eess.SY 19 Jun 2021 suffer from communication failures, on top of the possible asynchronism in agent updates 12 . In this paper, the authors are also interested in solving the distributed energy cooperation problem in the presence of communication losses. Considering the above challenges, this paper proposes a sustainable energy cooperation framework for the building community. The main contributions of this paper are threefold: 1) The peer-to-peer energy cooperation framework is pro- posed for the building community, in which individual buildings can ﬂexibly manage HV AC loads, ESSs, utility grid trading and peer-to-peer trading energy. 2) The peer-to-peer trading price is inherent in the proposed framework using the Lagrangian multipliers associated with the trading energy balance constraint. As such, the peer-to-peer trading price is optimally determined at every time slot. 3) The possible communication losses in the iterative peer- to-peer message exchanges are newly considered and modeled in this paper. In addition, a communication- failure-robust distributed algorithm over the lossy net- work is proposed for the peer-to-peer energy cooperation problem. The rest of this paper is organized as follows: In Section II, we present the system model of energy buildings. In section III, the problem for energy cooperation is formulated.
__label__energy	1 Impact of the Inflation Reduction Act and Carbon Capture on Transportation Electrification for a Net-Zero Western U.S. Grid Samrat Acharya , Malini Ghosal , Travis Thurber , Ying Zhang , Casey D. Burleyson , and Nathalie V oisin Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354, USA University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA samrat.acharya pnnl.gov Abstract The electrification of transportation is critical to mitigate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. The United States (U.S.) government s Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022 intro- duces policies to promote the electrification of transportation. In addition to electrifying transportation, clean energy technologies such as Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) may play a major role in achieving a net-zero energy system. Utilizing scenarios simulated by the U.S. version of the Global Change Analysis Model (GCAM-USA), we analyze the individual and compound contributions of the IRA and CCS to reach a clean U.S. grid by 2035 and net-zero GHG emissions by 2050. We analyze the contributions based on three metrics: i) transportation electrifi- cation rate, ii) transportation fuel mix, and iii) spatio-temporal charging loads. Our findings indicate that the IRA significantly accelerates transportation electrification in the near-term (until 2035). In contrast, CCS technologies, by enabling the continued use of internal combustion vehicles while still advancing torward net-zero, potentially suppresses the rate of transportation electri- fication in the long-term. This study underscores how policy and technology innovation can interact and sensitivity studies with different combination are essential to characterize the potential contributions of each to the transportation electrification. Index Terms Carbon Capture and Storage, Electric Vehicles, Global Change Analysis Model, Inflation Reduction Act, Net- Zero Emissions, Transportation Electrification. I. I NTRODUCTION THe urgency to mitigate climate change has prompted governments and concerned authorities worldwide to propose ambitious decarbonization targets aimed at reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. A myriad of factors in- fluence the potential pathways to meet those targets includ- ing projected advancements in technology, socio-economic considerations, and packages of incentives and policies that combine those considerations 1 . The inherent uncertainty surrounding these factors and their combinations lead to the existence of multiple potential pathways to achieve a given decarbonization objective 2 . In this paper, we scrutinize specifically the pathways to decarbonize the transportation sector, a major GHG emitter in the United States (U.S.) 3 . We quantify for the first time across the whole vehicle fleet the coupled influences of the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technologies on transportation electrification rates. This combination is important because the IRA policies tend to incentivize the electrification of transportation sector while CCS technologiesare expected to provide relief in that same electrification 4 . We quantify a range of uncertainties in key transportation sector metrics to inform power system operators and utilities in their long-term planning for resource adequacy and Electric Vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure planners and investors for meeting the decarbonization objectives. The U.S. government s IRA, enacted in 2022, stands as one of the most substantial investments aimed at combating climate change and steering the economy towards net-zero emissions by 2050 5 . This comprehensive initiative includes incentives targeting various aspects of clean energy produc- tion as well as the domestic manufacturing of technologies crucial for reducing carbon emissions such as batteries and EVs. Specifically, within the transportation sector, the IRA encompasses provisions for promoting clean fuel vehicles, incentivizing the establishment of charging infrastructure, and encouraging domestic production of clean vehicles and their components. Section II-B will delve into the specifics of the clean transportation measures outlined within the IRA. Given the potential interactions of IRA policies with CCS technolo- gies, a sensitivity around the IRA provides a benchmark for isolating the individual versus impacted contributions to the electrification of transportation sector. The IRA is set to expire in 2032 while the net zero economy goal is expected to be achieved by 2050. It is therefore strategic to isolate the impact of the policy through 2050 which can provide information to planners such as the value for early investors (by 2032) versus late investors (past 2032). CCS are necessary technologies to combat climate change 6 . For instance, various climate change assessments such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Chang, the Interna- tional Energy Agency, and the UK s Committee on Climate Change indicate that the GHG emission reduction targets set in the 2015 Paris Agreement 7 cannot be met without CCS 6 . CCS technologies primarily isolate and capture CO 2 from industrial emissions and from atmosphere (e.g., direct air capture), storing it underground or sequestering it. These technologies are only beginning to be deployed 8 , 9 . For example, only 15 CCS facilities were deployed in the U.S. as This is a preprint. It s complete copyright version will be available on the publisher s website after publication.arXiv:2408.12535v1 eess.SY 22 Aug 2024 2 of 2023, accounting for 0.4 of nation-wide CO 2emissions 10 . Furthermore, the survey in 11 finds U.S. residents with low awareness and support on CCS, primarily because of their rising cost and deployments near residential areas. However, several studies envisage the significant deployment of CCS in the next decade 10 , 12 . Thus, understanding the contribution of CCS technologies to various potential decarbonization scenarios might help develop incentives to its adoption in line with its contribution to the overarching decarbonization goals. In this study, we use the U.S. version of the Global Change Analysis Model (GCAM-USA), an open source multi- sectoral economics model 13 , to develop scenarios that reflect the IRA policies and potential widespread adoption of CCS technologies. These scenarios incorporate three U.S. decarbonization goals; i) to reduce nationwide GHG emissions by 50 in 2030 relative to 2005 levels, ii) to achieve a clean U.S. power grid by 2035, and iii) to achieve a net- zero nationwide economy by 2050. Details on GCAM-USA and the scenarios explored are provided in Section II-A. To asses the impact of IRA policies on transportation, we study two scenarios that reflect combinations of scenarios
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	A System-Level Energy-Efficient Digital Twin Framework for Runtime Control of Batch Manufacturing Processes Hongliang Li1, Herschel C. Pangborn2, and Ilya Kovalenko3 Abstract The manufacturing sector has a substantial influ- ence on worldwide energy consumption. Therefore, improving manufacturing system energy efficiency is becoming increas- ingly important as the world strives to move toward a more resilient and sustainable energy paradigm. Batch processes are a major contributor to energy consumption in manufacturing systems. In batch manufacturing, a number of parts are grouped together before starting a batch process. To improve the scheduling and control of batch manufacturing processes, we propose a system-level energy-efficient Digital Twin frame- work that considers Time-of-Use (TOU) energy pricing for runtime decision-making. As part of this framework, we develop a model that combines batch manufacturing process dynamics and TOU-based energy cost. We also provide an optimization- based decision-making algorithm that makes batch scheduling decisions during runtime. A simulated case study showcases the benefits of the proposed framework. I. I NTRODUCTION The manufacturing industry currently accounts for approx- imately one-third of worldwide energy consumption 1 . To help improve the sustainability of this sector, a number of incentives have been provided for companies to reduce the energy consumption of their manufacturing systems. One im- portant area of improvement for manufacturers is scheduling and control of their batch manufacturing processes 2 , 3 . Batch manufacturing processes often require long processing time and are highly energy-intensive, as they involve large and high-power equipment, such as furnaces, reactors, and mixers 4 . In batch manufacturing processes, a specific quantity of products, known as a batch, is produced at one time on a batch-production machine (BPM). The problem of optimally scheduling the batch sequence is considerably complex and has been identified as an NP-hard problem 5 . Because of the energy-intensive nature of batch processes, some models and methods have been proposed that consider energy usage during batch scheduling. For example, several scheduling methods have included energy consumption as an objective in the optimization process 6 , 7 . Demand-side energy management offers another promis- ing strategy to improve the energy efficiency of batch manu- facturing processes 8 , 9 . This strategy focuses on shifting energy-intensive operations to times with a lower energy 1Hongliang Li is with the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA, e-mail: hjl5377 psu.edu. 2Herschel C. Pangborn is with the Department of Mechanical Engineer- ing, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA, e-mail: hcpangborn psu.edu. 3Ilya Kovalenko is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering and the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, The Pennsyl- vania State University, University Park, PA, USA, e-mail: iqk5135 psu.edu. Fig. 1: An overview of the proposed framework for runtime control of batch manufacturing processes. price to reduce total energy costs. This process is often incentivized by utilities through Demand Response (DR) programs 10 . One method of DR is Time-of-Use (TOU) energy pricing, in which the electricity price varies hourly to reflect consumer demand and the availability of renewable energy on the grid 11 . Previous works have shown that energy-efficient scheduling under TOU energy pricing can be accomplished by using model-based optimization 12 , 13 , 14 . However, these studies solve the batch schedule problems offline and treat the corresponding schedule as fixed once production has started. The offline scheduling does not leverage runtime information and cannot account for disturbances (e.g., change of TOU energy prices, de- terioration of machines, or change of production goals), which may lead to undesired performance. The development and integration of effective runtime control strategies for batch manufacturing processes that incorporate TOU energy pricing is an ongoing research challenge. An additional challenge is the lack of models that can accurately capture and predict the dynamics of the systems and leverage runtime data for model updates. Recently, Digital Twins (DTs) have been proposed to improve real- time decision-making and control of manufacturing sys- tems, which provides a promising solution to this chal- lenge 15 , 16 . A DT is a purpose-driven, virtual rep- resentation of components, processes, assets, and systems that enable understanding, prediction, and optimization of performance 17 . One of the highlights of DTs is the integration of modeling, simulation, and other analytical tools, which enables comprehension and prediction of man- ufacturing systems with greater granularity, as compared to traditional modeling methods. Additionally, the trend of implementing DT is supported by advancements in the Internet of Things (IoT) and edge computing, which provide DTs with the capability to maintain runtime representations of manufacturing systems. Previous studies applied DTs forarXiv:2309.10151v1 eess.SY 18 Sep 2023 Fig. 2: Overview of the SLEE-DT framework. specific use cases in the manufacturing industry, such as predictive maintenance 18 and job shop scheduling 19 . In this work, we propose a novel energy-aware runtime control strategy for batch manufacturing processes through a system-level energy-efficient DT (SLEE-DT) framework. A high-level overview of the SLEE-DT framework is shown in Figure 1. Specifically, the major contributions of this work are (1) a discrete event system-based approach to model the batch manufacturing process and TOU-based energy costs, (2) an optimization-based decision-making model to determine the batch schedule, and (3) a system-level energy- efficient DT framework for run-time energy management and batch schedule control. The proposed framework is showcased in a simulated case study. The remainder of this paper is as follows. A problem statement for energy-efficient batch schedule of the batch manufacturing process is developed in Section II. Section III provides a detailed description of the SLEE-DT framework. Section IV presents a simulated case study to demonstrate how the proposed SLEE-DT framework can be used to improve the energy efficiency of an example batch manu- facturing process. Section V provides conclusions and future research directions. II. P ROBLEM STATEMENT This section defines the batch scheduling problem for a manufacturing system containing a BPM and a machine inventory. Consider a BPM with one manufacturing process that can process multiple parts, e.g., a coating machine. We define the
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	Robust Kalman filter -based dynamic state estimation of natural gas pipeline networks Liang Chen a, Peng Jin b, Jing Yang b, Yang Li c, , Yi Song d a School of Automation, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing , 210044 , China b State Gri d Customer Service Center, Tianjin, 300309 , China c School of Electrical Engineering, Northeast Electric Power University ,Jilin, 132012, China d State Grid Economic and Technological Research Institute Co., Ltd, Beijing, 102209, China ABSTRACT To obtain the accurate transient states of the big scale natural gas pipeline networks under the bad data and non-zero mean noises conditions, a robust Kalman filter -based dynamic state estimation method is proposed using the linearized gas pipeline transient flow equat ions in this paper. Firstly, the dynamic state estimation model is built. Since the gas pipeline transient flow equations are less than the states, the boundary conditions are used as supplementary constraints to predict the transient st ates. To increase t he measurement redundancy, the zero mass flow rate constraints at the sink nodes are taken as virtual measurements. Secondly, to ensure the stability under bad data condition, the robust Kalman filter algorithm is proposed by introducing a time -varying sca lar matrix to regulate the measurement error variances correctly according to the innovation vector at every time step. At last, the proposed method is applied to a 30 -node gas pipeline networks in several kinds of measurement conditions. The simulation sh ows that the proposed robust dynamic state estimation can decrease the effects of bad data and achieve better estimating results. KEYWORDS: Dynamic state estimation ; Kalman filter ; natural gas pipeline networks ; transient flow ; robustness 1. INTRODUCTION In comparison with the traditional coal -fired power units , gas-fired electric generators can response to the power load fluctuation rapid ly, enhanc ing the operating flexibility of electrical energy systems 1 3 .This may help to improve security of power system with l arge scale renewable energy . The random change of the natural gas consumptions due to the uncertainties of renewable energies makes it essential for obtaining the accurate dynamic states just like the pressures and mass flow rates of the natural gas pipeline networks to ensure the security and optimal operation of the integrated energy system containing electric powers and natural gases 4 7 . To capture the states, the pipeline networks have to be equip ped with a mount of measuring devices , which r equires heavy investment s. Even so, it is impossible to install sensors at every node of the networks and obtain all states. O n the other hand , the measuring devices experience random errors and bad data unavoidab ly, so the measured data cannot be applied di rectly to the leak detections 8,9 and control problems 10 before state estimation s. In recent years, some research works about state estimations for natural gas pipeline networks have appeared 11 15 . These works are based on the nonlinear partial di fferential equation (PDE) describing the characteristics of transient gas flow 16,17 . To linearize the PDEs of gas systems , in 18,19 , the dynamic states are redefin ed as deviations from steady state s for linearization purpose . In 20 , an iterative linear approximation is proposed, which is used to solve optimal power flow problem, rather than the linearization of PDEs. In 1 1 , a state estimation method for natural gas pipe lines by using the linearization of PDEs 20-22 is proposed. To improve the es timating performance, the state estimation with a pair of Kalman filter -based estimators running in parallel is carried out. Some researchers establish the state estimation model applying the PDEs directly, and solve the model by nonlinear algorithms . In 12 , the extended Kalman filter (EKF) is chosen to design an efficient observer for natural gas transmission system, and then an algorithm is proposed to handle the discontinuities that appear in the dynamic model of a gas transmission networks. In 13 , a two-step Lax-Wendroff method is used for the discretization of the PDEs to obtain finite -dimensional discrete -time state-space representations , and the particle filter that fits for the nonlinear filter problems is applied to estimate the transient states . These methods can capture the accurate states in the transient processes. However, as the scale expands , the c entralized implementation of the Kalman filter has severe limitations such as tuning, scalability , unacceptable calculating loads and lack of robustness in the case of sensor failures. Aiming at this problem, a strategy for the distributed and decentralized state estimation of state variables in big scale systems is proposed in 14 . In addition, the algorithm for a joint state and parameter estim ation problem for large scale networks of pipelines is presented in 1 5 , and the gradient descent algorithm is applied to solve the optimization problem. Corresponding author. E-mail address : liyang neepu.edu.cn (Yang Li ). In practical systems, the supervisory control and data administration system experience random error s and bad data inevitably due to the sensor error and electromagnetic interference . The e xisting state estimation methods based on Kalman filter can reduce the random errors to some extent, but is vulnerable to bad data. To solve this problem, a variety of improved Kalman filter algorithms are proposed. B ased on variational Bayesian technique, an adaptive Kalman filter for linear Gaussian state-space models is proposed in 23,24 , which has better robustness to resist the uncertainties of process and measur ement noise covariance matrices , as well as the colored measurement noise . In 25 , a robust filter in a batch -mode regression form is developed to process the observations and predictions together, making it very effective in suppressing multiple outliers . To ensure the stability of the unscented Kalman filter, the unknown time-varying matrix is introduced to describe the prediction error of the unscented transformation in 26 . It is can
__label__energy	IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. XX, NO. X, FEBRUARY 2024 1 Privacy-Preserving Distributed Learning for Residential Short-Term Load Forecasting Yi Dong , Yingjie Wang , Mariana Gama , Mustafa A. Mustafa , Geert Deconinck , and Xiaowei Huang Abstract In the realm of power systems, the increasing involvement of residential users in load forecasting applications has heightened concerns about data privacy. Specifically, the load data can inadvertently reveal the daily routines of residential users, thereby posing a risk to their property security. While federated learning (FL) has been employed to safeguard user privacy by enabling model training without the exchange of raw data, these FL models have shown vulnerabilities to emerging attack techniques, such as Deep Leakage from Gradients and poisoning attacks. To counteract these, we initially employ a Secure-Aggregation (SecAgg) algorithm that leverages multiparty computation cryptographic techniques to mitigate the risk of gra- dient leakage. However, the introduction of SecAgg necessitates the deployment of additional sub-center servers for executing the multiparty computation protocol, thereby escalating compu- tational complexity and reducing system robustness, especially in scenarios where one or more sub-centers are unavailable. To address these challenges, we introduce a Markovian Switching- based distributed training framework, the convergence of which is substantiated through rigorous theoretical analysis. The Dis- tributed Markovian Switching (DMS) topology shows strong robustness towards the poisoning attacks as well. Case studies employing real-world power system load data validate the efficacy of our proposed algorithm. It not only significantly minimizes communication complexity but also maintains accuracy levels comparable to traditional FL methods, thereby enhancing the scalability of our load forecasting algorithm. Index Terms Load Forecasting, Data Privacy, Distributed Learning, Federated Learning, Secure Aggregation, Collabora- tive Work I. I NTRODUCTION ELECTRIC load forecasting plays an essential role in power scheduling, planning, operating and management 1 , 2 . The stability of the power system is under threat due to the intermittence of renewable energy generations and the complex nature of utility-customer interactions and dynamic behaviors. To overcome this, residential Short-term Both authors contributed equally to this research. Department of Computer Science, University of Liverpool, UK, yi.dong, xiaowei.huang liverpool.ac.uk Electa, Department of Electrical Engineering (ESAT), KU Leuven and EnergyVille, Belgium, tony.wang, geert.deconinck kuleuven.be COSIC, Department of Electrical Engineering (ESAT), KU Leuven, Belgium, mariana.botelhodagama kuleuven.be Department of Computer Science, The University of Manchester, UK, mustafa.mustafa manchester.ac.uk This work is supported by the UK EPSRC (End-to-End Conceptual Guarding of Neural Architectures EP T026995 1 ) and the FWO SBO project SNIPPET (Secure and Privacy-Friendly Peer-to-Peer Electricity Trading S007619N ). This project has received funding from the European Union s Horizon 2020 (FOCETA: grant agreement No 956123) and UKRI (SPACE: project No 10046257).Load Forecasting (STLF) has been widely studied to facilitate the power system operations 3 , 4 . However, it is evident that residential-user privacy is at risk when residential-user load data is collected and mined 5 . For example, the res- idential user s daily routines and presence at home can be detected with a high probability from its electric load data, which will directly affect the residential user s property safety. Therefore, how to accurately forecast residential power load while ensuring data privacy becomes an open challenge. The Federated Learning (FL) method has been introduced in recent years to overcome the challenges of residential-user privacy. It can decouple the data storage from the training process 6 , while reaching a desirable accuracy compared to the centrally trained model 7 , 8 . There are already efforts to apply FL to power system forecasting to preserve the sensitive individual consumption profiles 9 14 . Yang et al. integrate variational mode decomposition, federated k-means clustering algorithm, and SecureBoost together for STLF with data privacy protection 9 . Jun et al. propose a novel method for disaggregating community-level behind-the-meters solar generation using a federated learning-based Bayesian neural network, which can preserve the confidentiality of utilities data 11 . Yong et al. propose a verifiable and oblivious secure aggregation for FL 15 . Their algorithm could tolerate the high drop-up rate of clients during large-scale FL training. Asad et al. highlight recent FL algorithms and evaluate their communication efficiency in detailed comparisons. The exper- imental results indicate that training data-driven models using FL not only enhances security and privacy, but also reduces communication costs 16 . The above-mentioned FL based algorithms claim the advan- tage of privacy in terms of not sharing the original data. With the gradual success of various privacy attack technologies in different applications, the load data can also be reverted if the attacker can access the gradients from agents 17 . Here, we use a simple example to show the threat of the attack algorithm to the artificial intelligence-based load forecasting algorithms, shown in Fig. 1. In Fig. 1, the two figures on the left are the original consumption data and the original image after conversion. The sub-figures on the right are the regenerated images from the attacker after they obtained the original gradients. As we can see, the attacker can accurately regenerate the original data only after 10 iterations. Therefore, any leakage of the gradient can cause a significant threat to customers data. To prevent information leakage from agents gradients, Bonawitz Copyright 2024 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. However, permission to use this material for any other purposes must be obtained from the IEEE by sending a request to pubs-permissions ieee.org.arXiv:2402.01546v1 cs.LG 2 Feb 2024 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. XX, NO. X, FEBRUARY 2024 2 0 5 10 15 200510152024 hour load after conversion1.00.80.60.40.20.00 5 10 15 20Comparison between Recovered and Real LoadDeep Leakage from Gradient Attack Process Iter 0Iter 10 Iter 20Iter 30 Fig. 1: Deep leakage from gradient attack. et al. 18 proposed using Multi-Party Computation (MPC) to aggregate the gradients privately. Multiparty computation is a cryptographic technique that allows a group of mistrustful parties to perform a computation over secret input data. By using MPC, a group of agents can obtain the aggregated value of all their gradients without ever
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	arXiv:2211.12299v1 physics.soc-ph 22 Nov 2022Harder, better, faster, stronger: understanding and improving the tractability of large energy system models Manuel Br ochin 1, Bryn Pickering1, Tim Tr ondle1, and Stefan Pfenninger2 1Institute for Environmental Decisions, Department for Environmental Systems Science, ETH Z urich, Switzerland 2Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management (TPM), Delft University of Technology, Delft, The Netherlands November 23, 2022 Corresponding author: manuel.broechin usys.ethz.ch 1 Abstract Energy system models based on linear programming have been growin g in size with the increasing need to model renewables with high spatial and tempo ral detail. Larger models lead to high computational requirements. Furtherm ore, seemingly small changes in a model can lead to drastic diﬀerences in runtime. He re, we in- vestigate measures to address this issue. We review the mathemat ical structure of a typical energy system model, and discuss issues of sparsity, deg eneracy and large numerical range. We introduce and test a method to automatically s cale models to improve numerical range. We test this method as well as tweaks to m odel formula- tion and solver preferences, ﬁnding that adjustments can have a substantial impact on runtime. In particular, the barrier method without crossover c an be very fast, but aﬀects the structure of the resulting optimal solution. We con clude with a range of recommendations for energy system modellers. 1 Keywords: Energy system models, Scaling, Linear programming, Nu merical is- sues, Interior-point, Simplex, Benchmark 2 Statements and Declarations 2.1 Author contributions M.B., B.P, T.T and S.P. designed the research and developed the models used in the experiments, M.B. performed the research, analysed the dat a, and plotted the ﬁgures, M.B. and S.P. drafted the manuscript, M.B., B.P., T.T. and S.P. discussed and revised the manuscript. 2.2 Funding The authors acknowledge funding from the European Union s Horizo n 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 837089, and the SEEDS project supported by the CHIST-ERA grant CHIST-ERA-19-CES -004, the Swiss National Science Foundation grant number 195537, the Funda c ao para a Ciˆ encia e Tecnologia (FCT) grant number CHIST-ERA 0005 2019, the Spa nish Agencia Estatal de Investigaci on with grant PCI2020-120710-2, and th e Estonian Research Council grant number 4-8 20 26. 2.3 Competing Interests The authors have no competing interests to declare that are relev ant to the content of this article. 2.4 Software and data availability All experiments in this work were performed using the Calliope open-s ource mod- elling framework, accessible on Github1. The automated scaling method was imple- mented on a Calliope fork, accessible on Github2. Further, all Calliope models used in the experiments are available on Github3. 1https: github.com calliope-project calliope 2https: github.com brmanuel calliope 3https: github.com brmanuel calliope-models 2 3 Introduction Mathematical optimisation, in particular linear programming (LP), ha s become the method of choice for the majority of established and emerging ener gy system mod- elling tools 1 4 . Renewable energy technologies need to be represented with a high spatio-temporal resolution and scope, to capture and account f or the eﬀect of their intermittency on system stability, to ensure that weather variabilit y can be captured across years 5 , and to exploit the balancing eﬀect of geographically distant weathe r systems 6 . This has led to the development of ever larger models 7 9 . Model size increases further when using Monte-Carlo or scenario-based met hods to deal with structural and parametric uncertainty 10 13 . 14 identiﬁed tractability as one key challenge for energy system optim isation models. Most commonly, temporal resolution is reduced 8,15,16 or time peri- ods with similar features are clustered and represented only by a su bset of typical days 11,17,18 . Advancements in the ﬁeld of time-series aggregation include pre- selection of critical days prior to clustering 19 , identiﬁcation of k-mediods as the most reliable aggregation algorithm 20,21 , and separation of storage into multiple decision variables, to allow information to be linked within and between c lustered periods 22,23 . 24 summarised thesemethods, ﬁndingthatexisting featureaggreg a- tion using k-means, k-mediods, or hierarchical clustering is still the state-of-the-art . However, they reiterated warnings made in several previous stud ies that time-series aggregation alters model results, both qualitatively and quantitat ively, and should therefore be used with caution 19,21 . Recent work 25 tries to improve tractability of energy system models on the algorithmic layer: they develop a par allel algorithm that exploits the inherent structure of energy system models to b reak up the problem into weakly related subproblems that can then be solved individually. Similarly to 25 , we take a step back from application-speciﬁc methods to reduce model complexity. Instead, we examine how the structure of the u nderlying opti- misation problem aﬀects its tractability, and empirically examine a rang e of options to improve tractability for typical energy system models. We also de velop and test a method to facilitate tractability, in which we automatically scale the p arameters of an energy system model. To do so, we draw on literature from the broader ﬁeld of operations research 26 28 . The paper proceeds as follows. First, we discuss the mathematical properties of a typical high-resolution energy s ystem model and compare the characteristics of the two main solution methods: simp lex and barrier (interior point). We identify scaling of the optimisation problem as a pa rticular area of concern for the performance of these methods and intro duce a method to automatically scale an energy system model. We then proceed with a s eries of sys- 3 tematic experiments investigating diﬀerent solver conﬁgurations, examining whether we can save computational eﬀort by settling for a potentially less ac curate solution, and testing the performance of our scaling method. We then discus s what general guidelines for energy system modelling we can draw from these exper iments. We use the open-source Calliope modelling tool 29 for our experiments. 4 Background A high-level view of the problem we want to solve is the following: Given t
__label__energy	Finite-Field Cholesky Decomposed Coupled-Cluster Techniques (ff-CD-CC): Theory and Application to Pres- sureBroadeningofMgbyaHeAtmosphereandaStrong Magnetic Field Simon Blaschkea,b, Marios-Petros Kitsarasband Stella Stopkowicz b,c For the interpretation of spectra of magnetic stellar objects such as magnetic white dwarfs (WDs) highly accurate quantum chemical predictions for atoms and molecules in finite magnetic field are required. Especially the accurate description of electronically excited states and their properties requires established methods such as those from coupled-cluster (CC) theory. However, respective calculationsarecomputationallychallengingevenformedium-sizedsystems. Choleskydecomposition (CD) techniques may be used to alleviate memory bottlenecks. In finite-field computations, the latter are increased due to the reduction of permutational symmetry within the electron-repulsion-integrals (ERIs)aswellastheneedforcomplex-valueddatatypes. CDenablesamemory-efficient,approximate description of the ERIs with rigorous error control and thus the treatment of larger systems at the CC level becomes feasible. In order to treat molecules in a finite magnetic field (ff), we present in this work the working equations of the left and right-hand side equations for ff-EOM-CD-CCSD for various EOM flavours as well as for the approximate ff-EOM-CD-CC2 method. The methods are applied to the study of the modification of the spectral lines of a magnesium transition by a helium atmosphere that can be found in magnetic WD stars. 1 Introduction In the last decades, there has been a growing interest among astrophysicists in the study of (magnetic) white dwarfs (WDs) as part of the exploration of stellar evolution.1 6Besides neu- tron stars and black holes, WDs represent the by far most com- mon endpoint in the life cycle of stars, i.e., 95 of all stars become WDs. Of those approximately 25 exhibit magnetic properties, with magnetic field strengths reaching up to 0.4B0 (1B0 235052T ), where electronic and magnetic forces are at the same order of magnitude. In order to assign spectra from strongly magnetized WDs, predictions for transition wavelengths and in- tensities are required. Two main considerations have to be taken into account: First, the magnetic field has to be accounted for in the Hamiltonian in an explicit manner. It cannot be treated per- turbatively as done in the weak-field limit for e.g. nuclear mag- netic resonance (NMR), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) or magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) spectroscopy.7Second, as electronic structure, bonding mechanisms, excitation energies and properties change significantly under the influence of such strong fields and no laboratory experiments are available, accu- rate computational predictions are crucial. Coupled-cluster (CC) methods8,9allow for a precise electron- aDepartment Chemie, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, Duesbergweg 10-14, D- 55128 Mainz, Germany. bFachrichtung Chemie, Universität des Saarlandes, Campus B2.2, D-66123 Saar- brücken, Germany. E-mail: stella.stopkowicz uni-saarland.de cHylleraas Centre for Quantum Molecular Sciences, Department of Chemistry, Univer- sity of Oslo, P.O. Box 1033, N-0315 Oslo, Norway. Supplementary Information availablecorrelation treatment. However, respective CC calculations are highly demanding due to the steep scaling and memory bottle- necks. In the absence of external magnetic fields, significant efforts have been made to tackle these issues and to improve the computa- tional cost for standard CC methods. For example, Pulay and Sæbø10,11introduced an approach which exploits the local na- ture of the short-range dynamic electron correlation that ulti- mately leads to sparse tensors, i.e., local correlation approaches. This ansatz uses orbital localization12 15for the occupied space and only a subset of excitations to the virtual space within spatial vicinity is treated. Using the projected atomic orbital (PAO)16 18 representations for the virtual space efficient local CC imple- mentations haven been realized by Werner and co-workers at the CC and Equation-of-Motion (EOM)-CC levels (CCSD19 21, CCSD(T)22, and CC223), respectively. In addition, Neese et al.24 revived the use of the pair natural orbital (PNO)25 27represen- tation for the virtual space which led to the highly successful do- main based (D)LPNO-CCSD28 30scheme. An extension of this ansatz to excited states has been described by Dutta et al.31 33 Other approaches to lower the computational bottleneck are fragmentation-based schemes such as fragment molecular or- bital (FMO)34 36and molecular fractionation with conjugate caps (MFCC)37. Here, the whole system is divided into fragments and treated via a many-body expansion. The fragmentation methods are mainly used for the description of large clusters of weakly interacting monomers or the description of large biochemical molecules like peptides. These are molecular systems which can often also be addressed by the related multilevel embedding ap- PVSOBM B N F Z F B S W P M 1 21 1arXiv:2409.20267v1 physics.chem-ph 30 Sep 2024 proaches, like QM MM38,39or QM QM40which allow for the accurate treatment of a desired subsystem while still describing the polarization and dynamics of the surrounding medium. Instead of exploiting the sparsity of tensors via spatial locality of orbital subspaces or molecular fragments another ansatz is to use a rank-reduced approximation of the electron-repulsion integrals (ERIs). This ansatz is applied in density fitting (DF) also termed resolution-of-identity approximation (RI)41 50or Cholesky de- composition (CD)51 56approaches. Using either approach the ERIs can represented by the product of rank three tensors. The RI approach uses a pre-optimised57 62or automatically generated auxiliary basis63 67in order to approximate the product density in the ERIs, whereas for the CD approach a CD of the ERIs is per- formed. Defining the Cholesky basis (CB) as collection of prod- uct densities corresponding to the pivots of the selected Cholesky vectors (CV), the latter two approaches become equivalent if the Cholesky basis is chosen as the auxiliary basis for RI.68,69Since the reintroduction of CD by Koch, Sánchez de Merás and Peder- sen52in 2003, many methods exploiting the CD representation of the ERIs have been developed.53 56,70 80The developments in CC theory include CD-(EOM)-CCSD81 85, approximate CD-CC2 linear response86as well as analytic gradients82,87. While RI and CD achieve memory savings due to the rank reduction of the ERI tensor, the computational savings are mostly due to a favourable prefactor and reduced I O overhead. However, the overall scal- ing is generally not changed. Further factorization of the ERIs (or their approximate representations) yields a method that de- couples all indices of the ERI and thus also handles exchange-like terms well, as, for example, tensor hypercontraction (THC) im- plementations of (EOM)-CC288,89and (EOM)-CCSD90
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	Policy-relevance of a Model Inter-comparison: Switzerland in the European Energy Transition Ambra Van Liedekerkea, Blazhe Gjorgieva, , Jonas Savelsbergb, Xin Wenc, J erˆome Dujardind,e, Ali Darudif, Jan-Philipp Sassec, Evelina Trutnevytec, Michael Lehningd,e, Giovanni Sansavinia, aReliability and Risk Engineering Laboratory, Institute of Energy and Process Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland bEnergy Science Center, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland cRenewable Energy Systems, Institute for Environmental Sciences, Section of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland dSchool of Architecture, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland eWSL Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research, SLF Davos, Davos, Switzerland fZHAW, Zurich, Switzerland Abstract The energy transition is reshaping electricity systems, bringing new challenges, and emphasizing the need for strategic planning. Energy policies play a crucial role in guiding this transition. However, assessing their impacts often requires robust modeling in- volving multiple models and going beyond a single country s scope, analyzing international interactions. In this study, we examine three Swiss energy policies, analyzing their impacts on both the national energy system and the cross-border electricity flows. We use a model inter-comparison approach with four electricity system models to explore scenarios involving Swiss renewable gener- ation targets, the Swiss market integration, and the Swiss winter import limitations, in the context of various European electricity developments. The results indicate that a renewable generation target leads to a reduction in net imports and electricity prices. Ad- ditionally, reduced market integration impacts both Swiss and European energy transitions by limiting trade benefits, underutilizing Variable Renewable Energy Sources (VRES), and increasing electricity supply costs. Lastly, we observe that limiting Swiss winter imports adversely a ffects electricity trading, driving up both supply costs and electricity prices. Keywords: Energy transition, Market integration, Model inter-comparison, Capacity expansion, Policy relevance 1. Introduction The energy transition is transforming our electricity sys- tems 1 . This is reflected in the evolving generation mix and the increasing electrification of the heating and transportation sectors 2 . This brings rising challenges which require proper planning and resource allocation to ensure the reliability of the power supply in the future 3 . Therefore, the scientific com- munity is placing significant e fforts in developing energy sys- tem models to better understand these challenges and to inform decision-makers 4 . However, modelers face hurdles in the se- lection of appropriate modeling approaches, the lack of data, the diversity of exogenous inputs, and their related uncertain- ties. Hence, the obtained modeling results often di ffer signifi- cantly across models and frameworks 5 , limiting their applica- bility in obtaining policy-relevant findings 6 . This motivates the research on model inter-comparisons comparing models in their natural environments 7 , such that a strict alignment on modeling assumptions and inputs is not required, but compara- bility is assured by harmonizing selected scenarios and key pa- rameters 8 . Such an approach increases the robustness of the Corresponding author. Email addresses: gblazhe ethz.ch (Blazhe Gjorgiev), sansavig ethz.ch (Giovanni Sansavini)policy-relevant results by identifying result consensus across models and scenarios 9, 10 . Energy and electricity system model inter-comparisons are increasingly performed. A review of 19 studies between 2011 and 2018 with various scenarios for Switzerland in 2035 is con- ducted in 11 . The analysis highlights that most models show a dependence on fossil fuel-based generation and net electric- ity imports, contrary to what the general public expects. In a recent study, the authors compare three spatially resolved elec- tricity system models to gain insights into the role of renewables in the Swiss energy transition in 2035 7, 12 . In general, dis- agreements among these model results exist for valid reasons; however, they find Photovoltaic (PV) is a common denomi- nator in the future generation mix. Similarly, 13 compares six energy and electricity system models with di fferent spatial and temporal resolutions focusing on Switzerland in 2050. Al- though the models mostly agree on PV as the driver of the en- ergy transition, some models and scenarios obtain higher par- ticipation of wind in the supply mix. In 14 , the authors com- pare four electricity system models for Germany, focusing on investment decisions and operational behavior in 2030. For this purpose, they harmonize scenario data and show that the result differences mainly depend on the modeling approach. Three electricity system models focusing on electrification and load shifting with electric vehicle batteries and heat pumps are com- Preprint submitted to arXiv December 18, 2024arXiv:2412.12964v1 physics.soc-ph 17 Dec 2024 pared to study Germany s generation adequacy in 2030 15 . The study results show discrepancies in load shifting, which are directly attributed to model features. In 16 , the authors compare six electricity models with country-level aggregation for central Europe utilizing a highly simplified test case. They identify expansion deviations, which can be related to specific modeling di fferences. Similarly, 10 compares five electricity models for Europe with high spatial aggregation. The paper ar- gues that a multitude of modeling approaches enable the eval- uation of result variance because of model uncertainty. The Energy Modeling Forum (EMF) has conducted 37 model inter-comparisons on topics such as macroeconomic and cli- mate change impacts, global energy modeling, electricity and fuel markets, and electric load forecasting 17 . In general, the literature mainly focuses on defining a comparison methodol- ogy and understanding what drives result commonalities and differences, while little or no focus is given to policy-relevant impacts. The literature agrees that model inter-comparisons are pow- erful methods for policy-relevant studies 6, 18 . The main ad- vantage lies in the analysis of commonalities and di fferences in results derived from various frameworks, models, assump- tions, and case studies 19 . The theoretical groundwork for inter-comparisons applied to policy questions is laid out in 20 . This work reviews significant policy instruments for renew- able energy integration and explores models and decision sup- port tools developed for energy policy analysis. Similarly, 21 evaluates model suitability for specific policy questions, and 22 investigates how di
__label__energy	Control Co-Design Under Uncertainty for O ffshore Wind Farms: Optimizing Grid Integration, Energy Storage, and Market Participation Himanshu Sharma, Wei Wang, Bowen Huang, Buxin She, Thiagarajan Ramachandaran aPacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA, USA Abstract Offshore wind farms (OWFs) are set to significantly contribute to global decarbonization e fforts. Developers often use a sequential approach to optimize design variables and market participation for grid-integrated o ffshore wind farms. However, this method can lead to sub-optimal system performance, and uncertainties associated with renew- able resources are often overlooked in decision-making. This paper proposes a control co-design approach, optimizing design and control decisions for integrating OWFs into the power grid while considering energy market and primary frequency market participation. Additionally, we introduce optimal sizing solutions for energy storage systems de- ployed onshore to enhance revenue for OWF developers over time. This framework addresses uncertainties related to wind resources and energy prices. We analyze five U.S. west-coast o ffshore wind farm locations and potential inter- connection points, as identified by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM). Results show that optimized control co-design solutions can increase market revenue by 3.2 and provide flexibility in managing wind resource uncertainties. 1. Introduction Offshore wind farms (OWFs) are becoming a key element in the global shift towards sustainable energy. These installations harness the wind over open seas, benefiting from higher wind speeds, which has driven their rapid in- ternational expansion. Over the past two decades, the o ffshore wind industry has achieved significant technological advancements, such as floating platform turbines and e fficient energy generation systems. These innovations have increased wind farm capacity, e fficiency, and expanded their reach to deeper waters. The 2024 O ffshore Wind Mar- ket Report 1 indicates the U.S. o ffshore wind energy pipeline grew by 53 from the previous year, with notable expansion along the East and West Coasts. As OWF development and grid integration progress, enhancing grid capacity in the U.S. is crucial 2, 3 . Ro- bust transmission infrastructure is essential to transport electricity from o ffshore sites. Innovations in transmission technologies, like High-V oltage Direct Current (HVDC) cables, promise e fficient long-distance electricity transfer. HVDC systems have lower energy losses compared to Alternating Current (AC) systems, making them suitable for wind farms situated far from the coast. V oltage Source Converters (VSC) 4 and Modular Multilevel Converters (MMC) 5 are also important for designing multi-terminal HVDC (MTDC) systems for wind farms. Designing and operating the MTDC network is critical for e fficient OWF integration. The MTDC network com- prises o ffshore substations, electrical cables, and potentially onshore power conversion infrastructure. These com- ponents can significantly impact overall system costs. Our study focuses on cable size design to maintain problem tractability. Assessing cable size, taking into account operational strategy such as the ability to meet power re- quirements at the point of common coupling (PCC) can prevent under-sizing and over-sizing of transmission cables, which directly influences MTDC network costs. Beyond MTDC network design and cable sizing, ensuring a stable system is vital. Integrating correctly sized en- ergy storage systems (ESS) with operational controllers provides operational flexibility and improved dispatchability 6, 2, 7 . The role of ESS in wind energy resources is reviewed in 8 , examining design and control for wind energy. Offshore applications benefit from onshore ESS deployment due to economic and grid service reasons, as detailed in 9, 10 . In our study, we consider ESS at the onshore point of interconnection. Preprint submitted to High Impact April 14, 2025arXiv:2504.08555v1 eess.SY 11 Apr 2025 As renewables grow and conventional generators decline, grid control requirements are evolving. OWFs must meet strict grid codes and provide ancillary services to ensure grid stability 11, 12 . Market volatility impacts re- newables participation in electricity markets 13, 14 . As the market matures, larger projects enjoy lower costs and enhanced profitability. OWFs can explore new revenue streams beyond fixed Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) by participating actively in energy and ancillary service markets. Technological and power electronics advancements enable wind farms to o ffer essential grid services and participate as market price-takers 15, 16 . Control and operations are crucial for OWF market participation. 17 emphasizes farm-level control for profit maximization in FarmConners market analysis. Kim et al. 18 highlight the importance of hybrid renewable systems with storage for ancillary market participation, o ffering new revenue streams. U.S. ancillary markets present signifi- cant value opportunities. European wind energy system integration and market participation are discussed by Eguinoa et al. 19 , stressing the need for reliable and profitable market engagement through strategic planning and operation controls. 1.1. Related Work Optimization-based models for onshore wind farms with energy storage for participation in multiple energy mar- kets have been extensively studied 20, 21, 22, 23 . Notably, Hou et al. 24 were among the first to explore OWF market participation with energy storage, though they focused on operational optimization without considering energy storage sizing. Recently, Bechlenberg et al. 25 addressed energy storage sizing for OWFs optimized for multiple electricity markets. Their work highlights the benefits of integrating OWFs with energy storage, employing a model predictive control approach to manage storage levels and correct prediction uncertainties. However, their ad-hoc ap- proach to electric component sizing, like cable capacity, could lead to sub-optimal system performance and excessive costs. Varotto et al. 26 proposed an optimization strategy to evaluate economic benefits through optimal sizing and energy management of Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) for hybrid wind-solar o ffshore farms. A subsequent study 27 framed a multi-objective optimization problem to assess di fferent storage technologies and locations, yet fixed storage sizes and overlooked control tuning for market participation. Frequency support for the power grid from renewable sources such as OWFs is increasingly vital. This support can be delivered through wind turbines and integrated sub-stations (VSC MMC-HVDC) with proper control designs 28, 29 . We review control schemes and combinations extensively studied in the literature, particularly critiquing those in 28 for fixed sizing assumptions. Through analysis, we
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	Impact of Leakage for Electricity Generation by Pyroelectric Converter Chenbo Zhang (张晨波),1, 2Zhuohui Zeng ( 曾卓晖),1Zeyuan Zhu (朱泽远),1Mostafa Karami,1and Xian Chen ( 陈弦)1, 1Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong 2HKUST Jockey Club Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong (Dated: September 16, 2020) Abstract Pyroelectric energy converter is a functional capacitor using pyroelectric material as the dielec- tric layer. Utilizing the rst-order phase transformation of the material, the pyroelectric device can generate adequate electricity within small temperature uctuations. However, most pyroelectric capacitors are leaking during energy conversion. In this paper, we analyze the thermodynamics of pyroelectric energy conversion with consideration of the electric leakage. Our thermodynamic model is veri ed by experiments using three phase-transforming ferroelectric materials with di er- ent pyroelectric properties and leakage behaviors. We demonstrate that the impact of leakage for electric generation is prominent, and sometimes may be confused with the actual power generation by pyroelectricity. We discover an ideal material candidate, (Ba,Ca)(Ti,Zr,Ce)O 3, which exhibits large pyroelectric current and extremely low leakage current. The pyroelectric converter made of this material generates 1.95 A cm2pyroelectric current density and 0.2 J cm3pyroelectric work density even after 1389 thermodynamic conversion cycles. xianchen ust.hk 1arXiv:2009.06890v1 physics.app-ph 15 Sep 2020 I. INTRODUCTION Energy harvesting from waste heat is an emerging research eld in sustainable energy science 1 . The heat, particularly in low-grade regime ( i. e. 250 C) is abundant in nature from solar radiation and geothermal activities. Industries and human daily activi- ties generate an immense amount of waste heat below 200 C. Ferroelectric materials with the temperature-dependent polarization attract increasing attention in recent years for elec- tricity generation from 40 C to 150 C 2 5 . The mechanism of this energy conversion is commonly characterized as the pyroelectric e ect. Many reported energy converters are made of a capacitor with a dielectric layer whose pyroelectric property is designed for har- vesting low-grade heat. Most of them are thin- lm devices 4, 5 working under a bias electric eld, provided by an external power. The electric energy generated by these devices is usually confused with the applied bias electric eld. Without such a bias electric eld, the performance of the energy conversion becomes rather marginal 2, 4 . When utilizing the rst-order phase transformation to pyroelectric energy conversion, the converted electricity can be drastically magni ed due to the abrupt jump of polarization caused by the structural change from ferroelectric to paraelectric phases. Without any ap- plied bias eld, the generated pyroelectric current by a bulk phase-transforming capacitor, i.e.150 nA 6 is larger than the current generated by the state-of-art thin lm pyroelectric converter, i.e.40 nA 5 almost by a factor of four. Similar energy conversion device was demonstrated using a single-crystal Barium Titanate 7 , which generates 400 nA pyroelec- tric current through only a 5K temperature di erence covering its tetragonal (ferroelectric) to cubic (paraelectric) phase transformation. This has been by-far the largest reported pyroelectric current purely converted from heat. Removal of the bias electric eld re-de nes the thermodynamic cycle for pyroelectric energy conversion from small temperature uctuations. Depending on the initial condi- tion, a couple of new thermodynamic models were proposed to analyze the power output for the power-source-free pyroelectric generators 6 8 . In our previous study for phase- transforming pyroelectric energy conversion, the initial state of the thermodynamic system is set as (PL;EL;TL) for temperature TLlower than transition temperature, the working conjugate of polarization PLand electric eld EL 0 at ferroelectric phase. The initial polarization is achieved by an external DC voltage source. For the bulk capacitor, the 2 applied DC voltage is in the range of 30V - 50V 6, 7 . When the ferroelectric capacitor is balanced with its charge reservoir, the external DC voltage source is removed and the system is assumed to be electrically isolated. When the ferroelectric material undergoes a phase transformation, the charges start owing. Therefore, this is a constant-current-output energy conversion device. Ideally, the total charges in the isolated system preserve if the phase-transforming dielectric layer is a perfect insulator. The charges leakage is unavoidable and non-negligible especially at elevated temperature for the perovskite oxides 8 13 . Over numerous energy conversion cycles, the performance of the device degrades signi cantly, which highly hinders the real applications of this new energy conversion technology. For the thin- lm capacitors, the leakage current is a more critical problem for electricity generation 10, 13, 14 . This paper theorizes the impact of leakage to the power-source-free energy conversion system shown in Fig. 1(a). The charges leak inside the dielectric layer as the energy conver- sion begins. Unlike the ideal insulation system, the electric eld of the phase-transforming planar capacitor can not reach its initial value after each of the energy conversion cycles, as illustrated in Fig. 1(b). II. THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS We consider the phase-transforming capacitor as the thermodynamic system. When the system thermally uctuates about the phase-transformation temperature Tc, the charges Q held by the capacitor accordingly fall and rise due to the alternation of capacitance caused by the rst-order phase transformation between ferroelectric and paraelectric phases. The charge can be expressed as a function of the temperature of the phase-transforming capacitor, T, and the voltage on the capacitor, V,i.e.Q Q(V;T). During the cyclic thermodynamic processes between the states ( QL;VL;TL) and (QH;VH;TH) whereTL T c T H, all three state variables ( Q;V;T ) change simultaneously without an application of a bias electric eld 6 . Considering a planar capacitor, the voltage is proportional to the electric eld in the capacitor. Let t 0 mark the beginning of the rst thermodynamic cycle (cycle 1 in Fig. 1(b)), the electric eld in the capacitor is E(0) E0 V0 d; 3 Routput(a) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ e-e-e-e-phase-transforming capacitornon-transforming capacitor Electric field(a.u)Polarization(a.u) 12 nthermodynamic cycles(b)FIG. 1. (a) Schematic of the energy conversion
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	Consists of this supplement: submitted as a US Provisional Patent, Oct. 13, 2015, as well as after page 11, the original submitted 3 23 15 arXiv 1503.06727 posting, submitted as a US Provisional Patent 2 26 15, prepared as a George Washington University Invention Disclosure 12 19 14. Carbon Nanofiber (from fossil fuel) Electric Power Plants: Transformation of CO2 Exhaust to Stable, Compact, Valued Commodities Stuart Licht Department of Chemistry, George Washington University Washington, DC USA Abstract Modes of power plant operation are presented which remove the greenhouse carbon dioxide from fossil fuel plant power station exhausts and transform the carbon dioxide into a valuable carbon nanofiber product. The first mode uses the emissions from a natural gas CC power plant to provide hot CO2 to a molten electrolysis chamber which generates both carbon nanofiber and oxygen. The valuable carbon nanofiber product is removed, heat from the carbon nanofiber and oxygen products is transferred into heating steam for the steam turbine, and the pure oxygen is blended into the air inlet to allow the gas turbine to operate at higher temperature and higher efficiencies. A second mode converts a conventional coal power plant to a STEP coal CNF power plant by directing the hot carbon dioxide combustion emission into carbon nanofiber production electrolysis chamber, and transforming the carbon dioxide to carbon nanofibers with the use of renewable or nuclear energy. Other intermediate modes of fossil fuel carbon nanofiber electric power plants with partial solar input are also evident, as well as a simplified, smaller version (for heating cooking) rather than electrical production. The Natural Gas Carbon Nanofiber Combined Gas Steam Cycle 2 Carbon Nanofiber (from fossil fuel) Electric Power Plants: Transformation of Carbon Fuel s CO2 Exhaust to Stable, Compact, Valued Commodities Stuart Licht Department of Chemistry, George Washington University Washington, DC USA Introduction Fossil fuels comprise approximately 80 of global energy sources and are nonrenewable. When oxidized as fuels, they emit the greenhouse gas CO2, which has risen to an atmospheric concentration of over 400 ppm during the industrial age and contributes to climate change. A recent report on the future of carbon dioxide emission forecasts that from 2010 to 2060 approximately 496 gigatons of CO2 will be generated by fossil fuel combustion.1 Pathways to avoid this emission are sought (i) to avoid the substantial greenhouse gas climate change consequences and (ii) to preserve this carbon in a compact, energetic form as a resource for the future. We have been developing a high solar energy conversion process, STEP (the solar thermal electrochemical process), which drive the conversion of CO2, and also drives the syntheses of a variety of societal staples without CO2 emissions.2-9 In this study we probe the cost effective conversion of fossil fuel greenhouse gas emissions to value added commodities. Recently, we introduced the direct, efficient STEP conversion of atmospheric CO2 to carbon nanofibers. The carbon nanofibers are a valuable commodity due to their unusually high strength, electronic and thermal conductivity and have a wide range of high end applications in construction, transportation, medical, electronics and sports fields. Under the appropriate electrolysis conditions (inexpensive anodes (such as nickel) and cathodes (such as galvanized steel), controlled composition molten carbonate oxide electrolytes, and transition metal growth points, and controlled current densities), carbon dioxide is split into carbon nanofibers and oxygen gas:10,11 CO2 C(carbon nanofiber) O2 (1) The chemical and electrochemical conditions of the CO2 transformation are readily controlled, and as shown in Figure 1, under the correct conditions can generate either straight or tangled carbon nanofibers and a carbon nanotubes subset of carbon nanofibers, carbon nanotubes.10,11 The electrochemical energy required to form the carbon tubes is as low as 0.8V and carbon nanofibers can be formed at a high rate (rates of 0.1 to 1 amps per cm-2 of electrode) at electrochemical potentials over 1V.12 In this study we develop processes for the transformation of carbon dioxide to carbon nanofibers from more concentrated CO2 sources, industrial flue gas, and in particular to remove the carbon dioxide from fossil fuel electric plants while producing the valuable carbon nanofiber product. This provides less of a challenge than the previously demonstrated direct removal of atmospheric carbon dioxide, which is dilute (0.04 ), as the flue gas is already hot, and several hundred fold more concentrated in CO2. CO2 is readily soluble in the molten carbonate oxide electrolytes, while nitrogen and water vapor are not. The undissolved gases (N2 and H2) exhaust from the electrolyzer with the CO2 removed (and transformed to carbon nanofibers). If not removed in pre-exhuast states, lower levels of impurities, such as sulfur gases are reduced to sulfur in the electrolysis chamber13 and do not inhibit or poison the electrolysis process. The 3 dissolution of carbon dioxide in molten carbonates occurs via reaction with the dissolved oxide, for example in the case of lithium carbonate: CO2 (gas) Li2O(dissolved) Li2CO3(molten) (3) Electrolysis with 4 electrons per molecule yields: Li2CO3 C(carbon nanofiber) Li2O O2 (4) Note, that the net reaction of equations 3 and 4 equals equation 1. Figure 1. Carbon dioxide t r a n s f o r m e d i n t o u n i f o r m s t r a i g h t ( l e f t ) a n d t a n g l e d ( m i d d l e ) c a r b o n n a n o f i b e r s10 a n d carbon nanotubes11 (right). In this study we probe efficient designs for the conversion of (i) CC (combined cycle) natural gas electric power plants and (2) coal plants to (1) CC CNF (combined cycle carbon nanofiber) and (2) STEP coal CNF (STEP Coal carbon nanofiber) electric power plants. 1. Natural Gas Combined Cycle Carbon Nanofiber Power Plant. 1a. Natural gas fuels. The composition of natural gas used to drive combined cycle (CC) power plants varies widely, but generally contains approximately 95 methane (CH4), 3 ethane (C2H6), 1
__label__energy	Carbon Monitor , a near -real-time daily dataset of global CO2 emission from fossil fuel and cement production Zhu Liu1 , Philippe Ciais2 , Zhu Deng1 , Steven J. Davis3 , Bo Zheng2, Yilong Wang4, Duo Cui1, Biqing Zhu1, Xinyu Dou1, Piyu Ke1, Taochun Sun1, Rui Guo1, Olivier Boucher5, François -Marie Bréon2, Chenxi Lu1, Runtao Guo6, Eulalie Boucher7, Frederic Chevallier2 1 Department of Earth System Science, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China. 2 Laboratoire des Sciences du Climate et de l Environnement LSCE, Orme de Merisiers 91191 Gif -sur-Yvette, France 3 Department of Earth System Science, University of California, Irvine, 3232 Croul Hall, Irvine, CA 92697 -3100, USA 4 Key Laboratory of Land Surface Pattern and Simulation, Institute of Geographical Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China 5 Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 5 Institute Pierre -Simon Laplace, Sorbonne Université CNRS, Paris, France 6 School of Mathematical School, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 7 Université Paris -Dauphine, PSL, Paris, France Corresponding authors: zhuliu tsinghua.edu.cn , philippe.ciais lsce.ipsl.fr , sjdavis uci.edu Authors contribute equally Abstract We constructe d a near-real-time daily CO 2 emission dataset, namely the Carbon Monitor, to monitor the variations of CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion and cement production since January 1st 2019 at national level with near -global coverage on a daily basis , with the potential to be frequently updated. Daily CO 2 emissions are estimated from a diverse range of activity data, including: hourly to daily electrical power generation data of 29 countries, monthly production data and production indices of industry processes of 62 countries regions, daily mobility data and mobility indices of road transportation of 416 cities worldwide. Individual flight location data and monthly data were utilised for aviation and maritime transportation sectors estimates. In additi on, monthly fuel consumption data that corrected for daily air temperature of 206 countries were used for estimating the emissions from commercial and residential buildings. This Carbon Monitor dataset manifests the dynamic nature of CO 2 emissions through daily, weekly and seasonal variations as influenced by workdays and holidays, as well as the unfolding impact s of the COVID -19 pandemic. The Carbon Monitor near -real-time CO 2 emission dataset shows a 7.8 decline of CO 2 emission globally from Jan 1st to Ap r 30th in 2020 when compared with the same period in 2019, and detects a re -growth of CO 2 emissions by late April which are mainly attributed to the recovery of economy activities in China and partial easing of lockdowns in other countries. Further, t his daily updated CO 2 emission dataset could offer a range of opportunities for related scientific research and policy making . Background Summary The main cause of global climate change is the excessive anthropogenic emission of CO 2 to the atmosphere from geological carbon reservoirs, from the combustion of fossil fuel and cement production. Dynamic information on fossil fuel-related CO 2 emissions is critical for understanding the impacts on climate due to different human activities, and their variability, on the forcing of climate change. Further, the combustion processes of fossil fuel also emit short -lived pollutants such as SO 2, NO 2 and CO . Therefore, such information would also allow a more accurate quantification and better unde rstanding of air quality changes1,2. Estimates of CO 2 emissions fr om fossil fuel combustion and cement production2-8 are based on both activity data (e.g., the amount of fuel burnt or energy produced) and emission factors (See Methods)9. The sourc es of these data are mainly national energy statistics, although a number of organizations such as CDIAC, BP, EDGAR, IEA and GCP also produce and compile estimates for different groups of countries or for all countries1,10-12. The reported fossil fuel-related CO 2 emissions are usually on an annual basis while lagging the very year s emissions by at least one year. The uncertainty associated with CO 2 emissions from burning fossil fuel and producing cement is small when considering large emitters or the global totals, smaller than that of co -emitted combustion -related pollutants for which uncertain technological factors influence the ratio of emitted amounts to fossil fuel burn t 13-15. The uncertainty of global carbon emissions from fossil fuel burning and cement production varie s between 6 and 10 5,7,16,17 ( 2σ). The uncertainty is attributed to both the activity data and the emission factors. For the activity data, the amount of fuel burnt is recorded by energy production and consumption statistics, hence the uncertainties are introduced by errors and inconsistencies in the reported figures from different sources . For the emission factors, the different fuel types, quality and combustion efficienc y together contribute to the overall uncertainty . For example, coal used in China is of variable quality and so is its emission factors , both before (raw coal) and after cleaning (cleaned coal) varies significantly, which was found to cause a 15 uncertainty range for CO 2 emissions. On the other hand , there is very limited temporal change of emission factors . For example, the annual difference of emission factors for coal consumption was within 2 globally18 while the variation of emission factors for oil and gas was found to be much smaller. Given the fact that the uncertainty of CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel burning and cement production is in general under 10 10,19,20 , and the annual difference of emission factors is less than 2 18, the CO 2 emission thus c an be estimated directly by estimating the absolute amount and the relative change of activity through time. This method has been widely used for scientific products that update recent changes of CO 2 emissions estimates1,21,22 23, understanding that official and comprehensive CO 2 national inventories reported by countries to the UNFCCC become available with a lag of two years for Annex -I countries and several years for non -Annex -I ones24. As such, a h igher spatial, temporal and sectoral re solution
__label__energy	1 Solar Energy Generation in Three Dimensions Marco Bernardi1, Nicola Ferralis1, Jin H. Wan2, Rachelle Villalon3, Jeffrey C. Grossman1 1 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, 2 Department of Mathematics, 3 Department of Architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 e-mail: jcg mit.edu We formulate, solve computationally and study experimentally the problem of collecting solar energy in three dimensions.1 5 We demonstrate that absorbers and reflectors can be combined in the absence of sun tracking to build three-dimensional photovoltaic (3DPV) structures that can generate measured energy densities (energy per base area, kWh m2) higher by a factor of 2 20 than stationary flat PV panels, versus an increase by a factor of 1.3 1.8 achieved with a flat panel using dual-axis sun tracking.6 The increased energy density is countered by a higher solar cell area per generated energy for 3DPV compared to flat panel design (by a factor of 1.5 4 in our conditions), but accompanied by a vast range of improvements. 3DPV structures are steadier sources of solar energy generation at all latitudes: they can double the number of peak power generation hours and dramatically reduce the seasonal, latitude and weather variations of solar energy generation compared to a flat panel design. Self-supporting 3D shapes can create new schemes for PV installation and the increased energy density can facilitate the use of cheaper thin film materials in area-limited applications. Our findings suggest that 2 harnessing solar energy in three dimensions can open new avenues towards Terawatt-scale generation. MAIN TEXT Converting the abundant flow of solar power to the Earth (87 PW) into affordable electricity is an enormous challenge, limited only by human ingenuity. Photovoltaic (PV) conversion has emerged as a rapidly expanding technology capable of reaching GW-scale electric power generation with the highest power density among renewable sources of 20 40 W m2 .7,8 The main barriers to widespread adoption of PV technology include system costs (3 5 Watt-peak) of which 60 is due to installation costs,9 the limited number of peak insolation hours available in most locations (further reduced by weather), and the requirement of a minimum threshold power density for cheaper thin-film technologies to become feasible for residential or commercial rooftop installations. The main approach applied so far to alleviate these problems has been to search for lower-cost active layers with higher power conversion efficiencies. However, efficiency improvements can only partially reduce the installation costs and cannot change the pattern of solar energy generation, since these aspects are related to the PV system design. A commonly adopted design consists of flat panels arranged on a flat surface often a rooftop imposing further geometrical constraints that yields far-from-optimal coupling with the Sun s trajectory. Sun-tracking systems can extend the range of useful peak hours, but add significant costs and are not well suited for residential or commercial installations due to the use of expensive and bulky movable parts. 3 The flat design of PV systems contrasts with the three-dimensionality of sunlight collecting structures found in Nature.3,4 Two main physical reasons underlying the advantages of collecting light in 3D are the presence of multiple orientations of the absorbers that allow for the effective capture of off-peak sunlight, and the re-absorption of light reflected within the 3D structure. We recently employed computer simulations (Ref. 5) to show that 3D photovoltaic (3DPV) structures can increase the generated energy density (energy per footprint area, kWh m2) by a factor linear in the structure height, for a given day and location. Optimal shapes derived using a genetic algorithm approach include a cubic box open at the top and a cubic box with funnel-like shaped faces, both capable in principle of doubling the daily energy density.5 The higher area of PV material per unit of generated energy compared to flat panel designs is a main disadvantage of 3DPV, although this is alleviated by the fact that the module is not the main cost in PV installations at present, and the PV outlay will become increasingly dominated by non-module costs in the near future.9 Additional practical challenges include inexpensive 3D fabrication routes and optimization of the electrical connections between the cells to avoid power losses. Despite the enormous potential of macroscopic 3DPV structures, the lack of a comprehensive optimization approach and systematic study of the benefits in different seasons, locations and weather conditions, combined with the fact that the module has until only recently dominated the total cost of PV, have thus far limited the advancement of 3DPV as a groundbreaking concept and technology. Here, we demonstrate that 3DPV structures can be realized practically and can 4 dramatically improve solar energy generation: compared to a flat panel, they can nearly double the number of peak hours available for solar energy generation, provide a measured increase in the energy density by a factor of 2 20 without sun tracking with even higher figures in the case of cloudy weather, and reduce the large variability in solar energy generation with latitude and season found in non-tracking flat panels. 3DPV structures additionally enable the design of effective sunlight concentrators using fixed mirrors. We establish and implement numerically a general formalism to calculate the energy generated over a period of time, at any location on Earth, by a 3D assembly of N solar cells of arbitrary shape, orientation, conversion efficiency and optical properties (Supplementary Information). The calculations account for inter-cell shading, Air-Mass effects in the incident solar energy and angle-dependent reflection of unpolarized light.10 The Sun s trajectory is computed for the particular day and location using an algorithm developed by Reda et al.11,12 Weather is not explicitly taken into account in the simulations and unless otherwise stated all the simulated energy values in this work assume clear weather. Once the 3DPV structure (here for convenience broken down into triangles) has been defined, the generated energy can be expressed as an objective function of the cell coordinates that can be maximized using standard Monte Carlo (MC) simulated annealing and genetic algorithm (GA) optimization techniques,13 17
__label__energy	1 Nitride - based interfacial layers for monolithic tandem integration of new solar energy materials on Si : The case of CZTS Filipe Martinho 1 , , , Alireza Hajijafarassar 2, , , Simón Lopez - Marino 2 , Moises Espíndola - Rodríguez 3 , Sara Engberg 1 , Mungunshagai Gansukh 1 , Fredrik Stulen 4 , Sigbjørn Grini 4 , Stela Canulescu 1 , , Eugen Stamate 2 , Andrea Crovetto 5 , Lasse Vines 4 , Jørgen Schou 1 , Ole Hansen 2 1 Department of Photonics Engineering, Technical Universit y of Denmark, DK - 4000 Roskilde, Denmark. 2 DTU Nanolab, Technical University of Denmark, DK - 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark 3 DTU Energy, Technical University of Denmark, DK - 4000 Roskilde, Denmark. 4 Department of Physics, University of Oslo, 037 1 Oslo, Norway 5 DTU Physics, Technical University of Denmark, DK - 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. Corresponding Author Email: filim fotonik.dtu.dk (Filipe Martinho), alhaj dtu.dk ( Alireza Hajijafarassar), stec fotonik.dtu.dk (Stela Canulescu) - These authors contributed equally to this work 2 Keywords: tandem, kesterite, TOPCon, photovoltaics, TiN A bstract The monolithic tandem integration of third - generation solar energy materials on silicon holds great promise for photoelectrochemistry and photovoltaics . However, this can be challenging when it involves high - tempe rature reactive processes , which would risk damaging the Si bottom cell. One such case is the high - temperature sulfurization selenization in t hin film chalcogenide solar cells , of which the kesterite Cu 2 ZnSnS 4 (CZTS) is an example . Here, by using very thin ( 10 nm) TiN - based diffusion barrier s at the interface, with different composition and properties, we demonstrate on a device level that the protection of the Si bottom cell is largely dependent on the barrier layer engineering. S everal monolithic CZTS Si tandem solar cell s with open - circui t voltage s ( V oc ) up to 1 .0 6 V and efficiencies up to 3.9 are achieved, indicating a performance comparable to conventional interfacial layers based on transpare nt conductive oxides , and point ing to a promising alternative design in solar energy conversion devices . Introduction The prospect of fabricating a monolithically integrated two - terminal (MI - 2T) tandem device for solar energy conversion has attracted considerable interest , due to t he possibility of higher conversion efficiencies and to inherent functional advantages in the fields of both photovoltaics and photoelectrochemistry . 1 In photovolta ics, a MI - 2T tandem solar cell minimizes the number of processing steps and interconnections of 2T tandem configurations , making it the most suitable configuration for large - scale industrialization , in particular when leveraging the 3 currently existing technology for crystalline Si (c - Si). 2 As a result, research for new materials as partner with Si is ongoing , along with new tandem design concepts. Regarding the latter, we have recently proposed the use of a thermally resilient Tunnel Oxide Passivated Co ntact (TOPCon) Si cell structure in combination with nitride - based diffusion barriers for the monolithic integration of materials synthesized under e xtreme conditions, such as high - temperature sulfurization of the thin - film chalcogenide Cu 2 ZnSnS 4 (CZTS) . 3 In order to achieve functional CZTS Si monolithic devices, it has been suggested that strategies for protecting the bottom Si cell need to be developed. 3 5 In this work , we approach this problem through a comparative study of CZTS Si tandem cells fabricated using three different types of TiN - based diffusion barrier layers . For the first and second, we use atomic layer deposition (ALD) to produce 5 and 10 nm TiN barrier layer s , and a 10 nm TiO x N y barrier layer . The differenc e in oxygen content was achieved by running the TiN ALD recipe without prior chamber passivation (i.e. a sequence of dummy TiN depositions) , thereby allowing a higher oxygen background level. We have previously demonstrated that this procedure increases the transparency of the TiN layer and le a d s to a promising diffusion barrier quality . 3 Furthermore, metallization studies on Si have revealed that different oxygen contents of TiN films can result in significant changes in the barrier performance against the diffusion of Cu and Al . 6 8 For the third barrier, we use a sputtered TiN layer modified by an intermediate Al layer, in a configuration TiN (5 nm) Al (2 nm) TiN (5 nm). This configuration is known to improve the barrier resilience against Cu diffusion when a pre - annealing in air is used to segregate Al to the TiN grain boundaries . Due to the air annealing, Al 2 O 3 stuffs the grain boundaries, reducing the grain boundary diffusion through the columnar structure of thin TiN films. 9 4 Through this work , it is shown on a device level how the different barrier layers tested achieve different degrees of success in regards to the compromise between diffusion barrier quality, optical transparency and electrical interconnection between top and bottom cell. As a result, CZTS Si solar cell s with efficienc ies up to 3 .9 and V oc up to 1.06 V are achieved . Notably, t he CZTS Si tandem cell performance obtained in this work is comparable to that obtained using conventional interface layers based on trans parent conduc tive oxides (TCOs) 4 , suggesting that this diffusion barrier approach could be a promising alternative tandem device configuration . If successful, one potential advantage of this approach is the possibility of tuning the barrier layer properties according t o the top cell material and synthesis conditions, in order to explore the monolithic integration of new materials on Si . Results and Discussion The effectiveness of the three TiN - based interfacial layer s was evaluated by a combination of measurements of the effective minority carrier lifetime on the bottom Si cell (hereafter referred to as
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	arXiv:2003.13560v3 math.OC 8 Nov 2021Discriminatory Price Mechanism for Smart Grid Diptangshu Sen, Kushaagra Goyal, Varun Ramamohan, Arnob Ghos h Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi Hauz Khas, New Delhi 110016, INDIA Abstract We consider a scenario where a retailer can set diﬀerent prices for d iﬀerent consumers in a smart grid. The retailer s objective is to maximize the r ev- enue, minimize the operating cost, and maximize the consumer s welfa re. The retailer wants to optimize a convex combination of the above object ives using price signalsspeciﬁc to eachconsumer. However, variabilityin unit pr icesacross consumers is bounded by a parameter η, hence limiting the discrimination. We formulate the pricing problem as a Stackelberg game where the reta iler is the leader and consumers are followers. Since the retailer s optimization problem turns out to be non-convex, we convexify it via relaxations. We pro vide per- formance guarantees for the relaxations in the asymptotic sense (when number of consumers tends to ). Further, we show that despite the variability in pricing, the pricing scheme proposed by our model is fairas higher prices are charged to consumers who have higher willingness for demand. We ex tend our analysis to the scenario where consumers can feed energy back to the grid via net-metering. We show that our pricing policy promotes fairness even in this scenario as prosumers who contribute more to the grid, are given la rge cuts on buying rates. The policy is also found to incentivize more prosumers t o invest in renewable energy, thus encouraging sustainability. Key words: OR in energy, Pricing, Stackelberg games, Smart grid 1. Introduction 1.1. Motivation The advent of home automation has enabled consumers to control their consumption depending on the prices. Users load can be categoriz ed in two parts: elastic, and inelastic. Elastic load refers to the energy cons umed by appliances whose usagecan be deferred or optimized depending on t he price, i.e, loads which are price-elastic. Charging of electric vehicles is a typical example because the user can optimally choose the charging schedule depen ding on the price points across the day. HVAC systems also constitute elastic lo ads because Corresponding author. Email id: arnob.ghosh imperial.ac .uk Preprint submitted to Elsevier November 9, 2021 the user is directly inﬂuenced by the price signal while choosing the se tpoint temperature. On the other hand, inelastic load refers to the load c ontributed by essential appliances like lights, induction-based cooking ovens etc. which often cannot be foregone and hence are price-inelastic. Using the advanced metering infrastructure installed at the users premises, the retailer or utility company1now can exercise better control on the total elastic load by varying the prices. For example, when the demand is hig h, the retailer can set high prices in order to dissuade the users from cons uming high amounts of energy. However, in the absence of a proper pricing me chanism, the full potential of the elastic load cannot be utilized. In recent times, demand response mechanisms have been proposed where users are compe nsated for re- ducing their consumption during periods of peak load 1 . However, such price mechanisms have not reached their full potential because the com pensation to the users is often not lucrative enough to induce changes in usage p atterns. One of the primary reasons of failure of the demand-response pric e mech- anism is that the price is same for all users. Diﬀerent users have diﬀe rent valuations for consumption which means that diﬀerent levels of incen tivization are required to persuade them to participate in the demand-respo nse programs. Further, researchers have argued that charging diﬀerent price s to diﬀerent users can in fact increase the eﬃciency 2 . It is also a practically implementable so- lution now due to the smart metering infrastructure as the retailer can directly communicate diﬀerent prices to diﬀerent users over the smart met er. Though such a pricing mechanism can be termed as discriminatory , we show in t his paper that it can actually promote fairness in terms of energy dist ribution in the community as the retailer is now charging higher prices to users w ho have higher willingness for demand and lower prices to those with low willingnes s for demand.2 In the scenario where renewable energies are integrated with the p ower grid, discriminatory pricing is even more important. It is known that with hig her penetration of renewable energy, there is increased variability in po wer supply and therefore, robust demand-response programs are require d to match demand with supply at all times. Diﬀerent users need to be incentivized at diﬀe rent rates so that they are keen to contribute to the main grid. Thus, d iscriminatory pricing can help to realize the enormous potential of renewable ener gy. 1.2. Our Approach We seek to answer whether allowing prices to vary within a certain limit across diﬀerent consumers can result in gains in social welfare and or retailer s proﬁt. We employ a game-theoretic framework to explore the same . We start with the scenario where users do not have access to renewable ene rgy and are dependent entirely on the grid for meeting their demands. We formu late the 1We use the terms retailer and utility company interchangeab ly. 2UserAis said to have a higher willingness for demand than another u serBwhenAwould consume more energy than Bfor the same price per unit. 2 problem as a Stackelberg game where the retailer sets the price and each con- sumer chooses how much to consume in response to the price. The r etailer optimizes a weighted sum of her proﬁt and consumers welfare. We s how that the optimization problem of the retailer is non-convex and we addres s this by developing convex relaxations of the same. We then derive the cond itions under which the relaxations give the same price as the original formulation. We also provide bounds for the optimality gap between the diﬀerent
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 Descriptor State Space Modeling of Power Systems Yitong Li, Member, IEEE , Timothy C. Green, Fellow, IEEE , Yunjie Gu, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract State space is widely used for modeling power systems and analyzing their dynamics but it is limited to representing causal and proper systems in which the number of zeros does not exceed the number of poles. In other words, the system input, output, and state can not be freely selected. This limits how ﬂexibly models are constructed, and in some circumstances, can introduce errors because of the addition of virtual elements in order to connect the mismatched ports of subsystem models. An extension known as descriptor state space can model both proper and improper systems and is a promising candidate for solving the noted problems. It facilitates a modular construction of power system models with ﬂexible choice of ports of subsystems. Algorithms for mathematical manipulation of descriptor state space models are derived such as preforming inverse, connection, and transform. Corresponding physical interpretations are also given. Importantly, the proposed algorithms preserve the subsystem states in the whole system model, which therefore enables the analysis of root causes of instability and mode participation. Theoretical advances are validated by example power systems of varied scales including a single-inductor or -capacitor system, two-inductor or -capacitor system, and a modiﬁed IEEE 14-bus generator-inverter-composite system. Index Terms Descriptor state space, power system modeling, power system stability, dynamics, state participation, eigenvalue, mode. I. I NTRODUCTION For reliable provision of electricity services, power systems must remain stable and be capable of withstanding a wide range of disturbances 1 . In addition to the traditional stability problems associated with synchronous generators (SGs), the increasing penetration of inverter-based resources (IBRs) lead to more stability threats 2 , partly because of the increases the system order (number of system states), and participation analysis (root cause of oscillation modes) becomes more difﬁcult. State space, as the most fundamental modeling method, has successfully been used for SG-based grids 1 , and has more recently also been applied to IBR-dominated grids 3 6 . States in a state space model are usually linked to physical variables with clear practical interpretation, in other words it is a white-box model, and root causes of instability and oscillations modes can be identiﬁed based on modal and participation analysis 1 . This can further guide parameter tuning and stability enhancement in practice. However, a normally overlooked fact is that the state space method can only model a proper system in which the number of system zeros does not exceed the number of system poles 7 , 8 . For example, when modeling the dynamics of an inductor in the Laplace s-domain, its current is the state and therefore has to be the system output, and its voltage has to be the system input. In other words, the system input, output, and state can not be freely selected. An important observation isthat the subsystems in a practical power systems are normally terminal-inductive (e.g., ﬁlter inductance of IBRs, stator inductance of SGs, winding inductance of transformers, and line inductance of transmission and distribution networks). This means that the terminal voltage is always the input of a subsystem model and the terminal current is always the state and the output. This can lead to port mismatch when connecting subsystem state space models to construct the whole model of a multi-apparatus power system. In order to solve this problem, in 4 , 6 , a sufﬁciently-large virtual resistor is added at each bus node, to make the node voltage well-deﬁned. Alternatively, in 3 , 9 , each transmission and distribution line is assumed to be a -sectionCLC circuit, which is equivalent to adding a sufﬁciently-small virtual capacitor at each bus node. Obviously, the additional virtual resistors or capacitors change the physical structure of the system, introduce errors (maybe sufﬁciently-small but non-zero), and limit the ﬂexibility with which models are constructed. An alternative to state space modelling is the transfer function method which has successfully been used for an- alyzing dynamics of grid-connected power converters (nor- mally using impedance or admittance transfer functions in electrical-centric view) 10 14 . This approach has gained increasing interest recently because the electrical impedance spectrum can be directly measured in practice which enables the black-box analysis when physics-based models are not available 13 , 15 , 16 . The transfer function can naturally represent both proper and improper systems. However, when numerically modeling a high-order, multi-input, multi-output system, the transfer function normally has poorer numerical accuracy and is slower to compute than the equivalent state space model 17 because of: (a) symbolic calculation with Laplace operator sfor transfer function versus linear algebraic calculation with constant system matrices for state space; and (b) redundant system states and orders for different input- output combinations of transfer function versus shared state vectorxand state matrix Afor all inputs and outputs of state space. Additionally, the system state information is hidden in transfer function model due to the one-to-many mapping from it to a state space model, which complicates state participation analysis 15 , 18 , 19 . In this article, descriptor state space (also known as implicit state space ) is introduced for modeling power systems. It is a generalized state space representation that can model both proper and improper systems. It was originally proposed many years ago in automatic control theory 20 , 21 but has only had very little attention in power engineering community, perhaps because electrical systems (actually all physically- realizable systems) can always be represented by proper state space models because they are casual systems in practice 7 .arXiv:2303.01701v1 eess.SY 3 Mar 2023 2 For example, a practical inductor can only be connected to a voltage source but not a current source, which implies an ad- mittance model of a proper system 1 (sL)(voltage input and current output), and the corresponding state space model can not be inverted. As will be illustrated in this article, descriptor state space can push these limits
__label__energy	1 Abstract In this pape r, applicability o f natural gas fuel for transportat ion as compared to diesel are investigated. This study investigates a promising technology for the heavy duty t ruck sector of transportation as a target for conversion from diesel to natural gas. The supp ly of natural gas is limited so we also verify the available do mestic supp ly quant ities both before and after a fleet convers ion. This paper concludes with an econo mic discussion regarding Jevon s paradox and the fungibi lity of natural gas as compared to that of oil. In order to determine if natural gas can replace diesel for the count ry s heavy duty truck transportation needs, the energy equivalent and efficiencies of natural gas alternatives should be compared to diesel. There are two alternatives for using natural gas as a replacement for diesel : compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG). Index Terms Natural gas, Heavy duty, Energy analysis, and fuel economy. I. INTRODUCTION For several decades, natural gas has provided clean power to thousands of househ olds and business nationwide. Natural gas is a promising clean fuel source. The use of clean alternative fuels opens new opportunities to consumers to address concerns about fuel costs, emissions , and provides them with new fuel supply ch oices. Research an d development , along with several projects, have been directed by different organizations and laboratories in order to study the benefits of using Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as a fuel in heavy -duty vehicles. In 20 a cooperative on -road development proje ct was developed. This project led to a production of a heavy - duty natural gas engine by Detroit Diesel Corporation. This project demonstrated that LNG can be a viable fuel for heavy - duty trucks and that it offers a very promising alternative to diesel fuel. The authors of 21 suggest the use of LNG as a clean alternative fuel, based on its merits of safety, high efficiency, low cost and environmental friendly fuel. Natural gas is a promising fuel source. It is used already in the United States and aroun d the world. The uses for natural gas include residential and commercial heating, industrial applications like reformation and most importantly as a fuel source for electrical generation 8 . Conventional natural gas has been a plentiful resource in places like Qatar, Russia, and the United States. With advances in technology, unconventional natural gas has been shown to be even more plentiful in even more places around the world. This increase in the world s supply of natural gas combined with increase d demand on other energy sources has prompted calls for a broadening use of natural gas, especially in transportation. In this paper, we analyze this call for natural gas use in transportation. We first present a better understanding of the energy comparabi lity of natural gas to diesel. We then identify the heavy duty truck sector of transportation as a target for conversion from diesel to natural gas and the factors associated with this conversion. The supply of natural gas is limited , so we also verify the available domestic supply both before and after a fleet conversion. Also of interest is the increased consumption due to conversion on the transport capacity of natural gas. Environmentally, a switch from diesel to natural ga s has prompted discussion of possible reduction in CO2 emissions . This will also be analyzed in this paper. We will end with an economic discussion regarding Jevon s paradox and the fungibility of natural gas as compared to that of oil. II. DIESEL FUEL VERSUS NATURAL GAS ENERGY ANALYSIS In order to determine if natural gas can replace diesel for the country s heavy duty truck transportation needs, the energy equivalen ce and efficiencies of natural gas alternatives should be compared to diesel. There are two alternatives for using natural gas as a replacement for diesel, compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG). Compressed natural gas is stored at 200 atmospheres of pressure. Even at this pressure CNG has approximately 25 of the energy density of diesel; however, given that it is more knock resistant than diesel, it has a higher efficiency since it can be operated at higher compression ratios. However, the volume required for CNG makes it unsuitable for long range transportation. Compared to LNG it is cheaper b ut require s more infrastructure . It may be a useful alternative for other heavy duty truck applications that do not require large fuel tanks. An Investigation of Natural Gas as a Substitute for Diesel in Heavy Duty Trucks and Associated Considerations Muneer Mohammad, Student Member, IEEE, Mehrdad Ehsani, Fellow, IEEE 2 Liquefied natural gas (LNG) has a much greater energy density than CNG. It takes one -third of the volume of CNG. This makes LNG the natural gas alternative of choice for long range transportation, such as coach buses and semi -trucks. Another factor to consider is fuel weight. Although the much lower weight per volume of LNG (3.5lb gal) , compared to that of diesel (7.6lb gal) , more than makes up for the lower energy density of LNG, the complex fuel tank used for LNG storage is much heavier than a fuel tank used for diesel. In a study sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and conducted by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), a Cummins NTC 350 (350 hp) diesel engine and a Prototype DDC S60G (370 hp) LNG engine were compared to determine how an LNG powered engine perfo rms. Table 1 shows the resulting diesel and LNG transportation performance. These results can be used to determine how much LNG would be needed to supplant diesel in agricultural applications. TABLE 1 FUEL ECONOMY FOR DIFFERENT VEHICLES The resulting average natural gas fuel economy was 2.8 miles per gallon of LNG, which corresponds to 4.7 miles pe r diesel equivalent (DEG). The ratio 4.7 2.8 1.67 can be
__label__energy	Learning a Multi-Agent Controller for Shared Energy Storage System Ruohong Liu and Yize Chen Artiﬁcial Intelligence Thrust, Information Hub The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) rliu519 connect.hkust-gz.edu.cn, yizechen ust.hk Abstract Deployment of shared energy storage systems (SESS) allows users to use the stored energy to meet their own energy demands while saving energy costs without installing private energy storage equipment. In this paper, we consider a group of building users in the community with SESS, and each user can schedule power injection from the grid as well as SESS according to their demand and real-time electricity price to minimize energy cost and meet energy demand simultaneously. SESS is encouraged to charge when the price is low, thus providing as much energy as possible for users while achieving energy savings. However, due to the complex dynamics of buildings and real-time external signals, it is a challenging task to ﬁnd high-performance power dispatch decisions in real-time. By designing a multi-agent reinforcement learning framework with state-aware reward functions, SESS and users can realize power scheduling to meet the users energy demand and SESS s charging discharging balance without additional communication, so as to achieve energy optimization. Compared with the baseline approach without the participation of the SESS, the energy cost is saved by around 2:37 to21:58 . I. I NTRODUCTION Energy storage is gaining more attention since it en- ables higher penetration of renewables, achieving energy arbitrage and enhancing the power systems resilience 1 , 2 . However, the high installation and maintenance costs of energy storage systems hinder their application 3 . In contrast, installing a shared energy storage system (SESS) for the community is a more economical and feasible solution, because users can maximize the utilization of energy stor- age without installing an individual energy storage system. The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) has broadly deﬁned community storage as storage connected at the distribution feeder level 4 , associated with a cluster of customer load. The services of these types of systems could provide capacity for excess generation from distributed energy resources (DERs) and backup power during outages. Previous works have demonstrated that shared energy storage could achieve electricity cost saving with higher utilization compared to individual energy storage 5 . Most of these existing studies on SESS assume that users demand patterns as well as energy prices are known ahead of time or can be predicted perfectly 6 , thus the system operator only needs to optimize the charging of SESS and power dispatch to each user 7 . However, due to time- varying external signals such as electricity prices and com-plex user demand behaviors such as heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HV AC) systems, these assumptions are not realistic in practice. Therefore, we propose to consider the setting where multiple users learn to cooperatively operate a SESS to simultaneously reduce energy cost and satisfy energy demand in a distributed manner. Simultaneously controlling the charging and discharging of the SESS and the energy demand of the users is a complex problem. Due to the limited capacity of the SESS, charging and discharging operations will affect the subsequent deci- sions, which makes the problem a time-coupling problem. It is hard to model such complex dynamical systems using classical dynamic programming techniques 7 . Furthermore, centralized control or reinforcement learning schemes require system operators to know their full state, which places high demands on communication and raises privacy issues when collecting the state information from individuals 8 . In our proposed distributed control approach, the energy storage sys- tem only needs to respond to price signals without predicting the energy demand of the building, while building user agents decide discharging from SESS and power injection from the grid. With multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) setup 9 , 10 , the multi-objective optimization problem can be simpliﬁed as maximizing each agent s reward. In this paper, we consider the scenario with the collocation of energy storage and residential homes. We are interested in integrating energy storage while shifting the portion of their electricity demand load in response to time-varying electricity price, i.e., demand response. We design a collabo- rative learning approach based on MARL. States and actions information of all agents are provided to each agent during the training process to help each policy neural network learn the policy, while only the local state is utilized during dis- tributed execution. We observe reward shaping are important for MARL training, where negative rewards are proposed for temperature derivation and energy cost for building agents; meanwhile, rewards are designed to encourage the energy storage can utilize electricity price ﬂuctuations. We test our proposed method with real-world temperature and price based on a group of realistic building models, and the performance shows that around 2:37 to21:58 of energy cost is saved compared to the baseline setup without the participation of the SESS.arXiv:2302.08328v1 eess.SY 16 Feb 2023 II. P ROBLEM SETUP In our paper, we consider energy storage system which is set up to be controlled or dispatched by a utility or third party to maximize its service values for a given community. Similar to 11 , we assume each building (customer) in a microgrid can schedule the shiftable loads based on user preferences and manage the interaction with the grid and the SESS. As HV AC system usually accounts for about half of building energy consumption 12 , and HV AC loads are ﬂexible to provide incentives for users to use energy storage as the external power source during peak time, we choose to model HV AC as energy users in this paper. Fig. 1 demonstrates a building cluster equipped with SESS. The SESS charges from grid and dispatches its stored energy to buildings. Buildings schedule their power injection from both SESS and grid to minimize energy cost while keeping the indoor temperature within the preferred range of users. Fig. 1. Schematic of proposed data-driven control strategies based on a multi-agent RL framework. A community-shared battery learns to cooperate with multiple buildings. Here the
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	Exploiting Vulnerabilities of Load Forecasting Through Adversarial Attacks Yize Chen Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Washington Seattle, WA yizechen uw.eduYushi Tan Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Washington Seattle, WA ystan uw.eduBaosen Zhang Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Washington Seattle, WA zhangbao uw.edu ABSTRACT Load forecasting plays a critical role in the operation and planning of power systems. By using input features such as historical loads and weather forecasts, system operators and utilities build forecast models to guide decision making in commitment and dispatch. As the forecasting techniques becomes more sophisticated, however, they also become more vulnerable to cybersecurity threats. In this paper, we study the vulnerability of a class of load forecasting al- gorithms and analyze the potential impact on the power system operations, such as load shedding and increased dispatch costs. Specifically, we propose data injection attack algorithms that re- quire minimal assumptions on the ability of the adversary. The attacker does not need to have knowledge about the load forecast- ing model or the underlying power system. Surprisingly, our results indicate that standard load forecasting algorithms are quite vulner- able to the designed black-box attacks. By only injecting malicious data in temperature from online weather forecast APIs, an attacker could manipulate load forecasts in arbitrary directions and cause significant and targeted damages to system operations. CCS CONCEPTS Computer systems organization Embedded and cyber-physical systems ; Security and privacy Systems security ; Machine learning Machine learning approaches ; KEYWORDS Adversarial Attacks, Cyber-Physical Security, Load Forecast, Ma- chine Learning, Unit Commitment, Economic Dispatch ACM Reference Format: Yize Chen, Yushi Tan, and Baosen Zhang. 2019. Exploiting Vulnerabilities of Load Forecasting Through Adversarial Attacks. In Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Future Energy Systems (e-Energy 19). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 11 pages. https: doi.org 10.1145 nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 INTRODUCTION Load forecasting is a fundamental step in power system planning and operations. It is used to inform system operators the future load profiles, and serves as the basis of decision-making problems such as unit commitment, reserve management, economic dispatch and maintenance scheduling 14 . Consequently, the accuracy of forecasted loads directly impact the cost and reliability of system operations 16 . With a growing penetration of new technologies e-Energy 19, June 2019, Phoenix, AZ, United States 2019. ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x YY MM. . . 15.00 https: doi.org 10.1145 nnnnnnn.nnnnnnninto the demand side, the utilities and system operators need to place more importance on both accurate and robust forecasts. For years, the holy grail in short-term load forecasting has been toimprove the forecast accuracy , which has been vigorously pur- sued by the research community. The variations in load are driven by many different factors, including temperature, weather, tem- poral and seasonal effects (e.g., weekday vs. weekend) and other socioeconomic factors. All of these factors influence the load in nonlinear and complex ways. Over the past decades, a myriad of load forecasting algorithms have been proposed and adopted in practice. See, for example, 7, 13, 14 and the references within. For simplicity, in this paper, we restrict the inputs of the algo- rithms to be the historical load data, time indicators and temper- ature information. These algorithms can be thought of as finding a mapping between the (high dimensional) input features to the forecasted time series of load values. Statistical and machine learn- ing techniques, such as support vector regression 6 , ARIMA 12 and neural networks 8,15 have been applied to short term load forecasting and are well adopted in practice. The recent advances in deep learning opened the door to using more input features and deeper model architectures to further improve load forecasting accu- racy and provided some of the best performances to date 20,32,38 . Attacker Historical Load 05 10 15 20 25 Hour650070007500800085009000 Load(MW)Weather Forecasts Adversarial Weather Data 05 10 15 20 25Hour22.52323.52424.52525.52626.52727.5Temperature (F) Load Forecasting Model Data Injection Attack 2468 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 246500700075008000850090009500 HourLoad(MW)? ?System Operations Unit Commitment; Economic Dispatch ... ... Normal Operation Attacks Operation Figure 1: The schematic of our proposed attacks on load forecasting algorithms along with the threats over power system operations. Without knowledge about the forecast model s parameters, the attacker injects designed small, un- detectable data perturbations into weather forecasts to in- duce abnormal system operations. As the forecasting methods become more complex and accurate, they are also more susceptible to cybersecurity threats. In this pa- per, we look into the data vulnerabilities of such methods, where an attacker adversarially injects false data into the input featuresarXiv:1904.06606v1 cs.SY 13 Apr 2019 e-Energy 19, June 2019, Phoenix, AZ, United States Yize Chen, Yushi Tan, and Baosen Zhang of forecasting algorithms. Specifically, we investigate false data injection attacks of the temperature data. It is an important input to load forecasting algorithms and is mostly obtained from exter- nal services APIs, therefore providing an easier avenue for data perturbations and attack injections. The potential damage of these types of attacks can be significant, leading to increases in system operation costs and maybe even more catastrophic events such as load shedding. In Figure 1, we show the schematic of threats and proposed attacks to systems. In this paper, we take the perspective of an attacker and develop attack strategies on load forecasting algorithms, and conduct dam- age analysis of the proposed attacks. We take a restrictive setting of both the attacker s knowledge and capabilities , where the attacker does not know any parameter of the targeted load fore- casting algorithms, and could only inject perturbations into input temperatures under constraints to avoid detection. Under this setup, we develop two simple data-driven attack strategies for finding the injected perturbations onto the origi- nal temperature data. Surprisingly, we find the proposed attacks significantly degrade the performance of a class of (accurate) load forecasting algorithms. With only few degrees of perturbations injected into input temperatures, the load forecasting algorithm s output deviates drastically from original values. We also assess the damages brought by such model vulnerabilities in power system operations.
__label__energy	Computational predictions of weld structural integrity in hydrogen transport pipelines Tushar Kanti Mandala,c, Jonathan Parkerb, Michael Gaglianob, Emilio Martínez-Pañedaa,c, aDepartment of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PJ, UK bElectric Power Research Institute, 3420 Hillview Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA cDepartment of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK Abstract We combine welding process modelling with deformation-diffusion-fracture (embrittlement) simu- lations to predict failures in hydrogen transport pipelines. The focus is on the structural integrity of seam welds, as these are often the locations most susceptible to damage in gas transport infrastructure. Finite element analyses are conducted to showcase the ability of the model to predict cracking in pipeline steels exposed to hydrogen-containing environments. The validated model is then employed to quantify critical H 2fracture pressures. The coupled, phase field-based simulations conducted provide insight into the role of existing defects,microstructural heterogene- ity, and residual stresses. We find that under a combination of deleterious yet realistic conditions, the critical pressure at which fracture takes place can be as low as 15 MPa. These results bring new mechanistic insight into the viability of using the existing natural gas pipeline network to transport hydrogen, and the computational framework presented enables mapping the conditions under which this can be achieved safely. Keywords: Hydrogen embrittlement; Multi-physics modelling; Phase field fracture; Pipeline steels; Welds. 1. Introduction Driven by the prominentrole thathydrogen willplay as a clean energy vector,there is growing interest in assessing the suitability of transporting gaseous hydrogen through the existing natural gas pipeline network 1 4 . From a techno-economic point of view, the desire is to be able to Corresponding author. Email address: emilio.martinez-paneda eng.ox.ac.uk (Emilio Martínez-Pañeda) Preprint submitted to International Journal of Hydrogen Energy January 23, 2024arXiv:2401.11529v1 cs.CE 21 Jan 2024 safely and reliably move large volumes of hydrogen at the required gas purity and pressure 5,6 . However, hydrogen is known to dramatically degrade metallic materials 7 9 . Recent experimen- tal studies have shown that exposing pipeline steels to hydrogen gas (or natural gas hydrogen mixtures) leads to reduced fracture resistance 10 13 , accelerated fatigue crack growth rates 14,15 ,and degraded tensile behaviour (e.g.,reductions in breaking stress,notch tensile strength, ductility) 16,17 . Consequently, quantifying the factors affecting performance within a robust engineering framework will allow identifying the conditions under which hydrogen can be safely transported in existing and new pipeline infrastructure. This capability would have value for assessing the suitability of existing gas pipelines and provide benefits to new systems. Real-scale trialsareongoing,wherepipelineintegrityisassessedunderaprogressivelyincreasinggaspressure and or hydrogen gas purity 18,19 ; however, these tests are inherently of a relatively short dura- tion and arguably not a good representation of long-term conditions due to a number of reasons, ranging from fatigue damage to the need to destabilise the existing oxide film to enable hydrogen ingress into the pipeline steel. Moreover, there are many different steel grades used in line pipe applications. These are typically fabricated to API 5L Line Pipe specifications and are classified according to tensile properties. Thus, it is impossible to assess all the combinations of steels, welds and operating conditions using physical tests. The goal of the present work is to utilise state-of-the-art computational technologies to overcome these methodological challenges and pro- vide a mechanistic assessmentofpipeline integrity as a function ofhydrogen pressure andcontent. Coupled finite element models provide an avenue for predicting hydrogen diffusion and its interplay with material deformation and damage 20,21 . Typically, these models assume a given hydrogen concentration at the exposed boundaries (although some models can also quantify hydrogen uptake 22,23 ), and predict the distribution of hydrogen due to diffusion, driven by gradients of concentration and of hydrostatic stress 24,25 , and its sequestration at mi- crostructural traps 26 28 . Damage is often assumed to nucleate when a critical combination of mechanical fields and hydrogen content is attained 29,30 , and multiple computational technolo- gies have been used to simulate the growth of hydrogen-assisted cracks, including cohesive zone elements 31 35 ,nodal release techniques 36 ,damage mechanics models 37 39 ,and phase field methods 40 45 . Recent years have seen significant progress in modelling abilities and it is now possible to deliver hydrogen embrittlement predictions for time and length scales of technological 2 importance 46 , effectively launching a Virtual Testing paradigm in hydrogen-containing envi- ronments. However, welded joints are often the weakest link in structural components and the aforementioned computational capabilities have yet to be applied to welds. Existing modelling schemes need to be extended to account for the particularities of welds (e.g., residual stresses, microstructural variations, existing defects) to deliver accurate estimations of pipeline integrity in hydrogen-containing environments. In this work, we present a computational framework that couples weld process simulations with deformation-diffusion-fracture modelling of hydrogen-assisted cracking. The approach de- veloped seeks to minimize the number of assumptions required and thus the integrated models perform calculations based on the engineering processes applied during fabrication and exposure. Our focus is on pipeline steels containing seam welds manufactured using submerged arc welding, so as to map safe regimes of operation in hydrogen transport pipelines. Critical pressures are determined for a wide range of scenarios to understand and quantify the role of key variables; namely: residual stresses, microstructure, weld geometry and quality, porosity, existing defects (internal and external), and hydrogen gas pressure. We find that, in the worst (realistic) scenario, H2pressures as low as 15 MPa can compromise the structural integrity of pipelines. The remainder of this manuscript is structured as follows. In Section 2, the computational frameworkispresented,includingtheweldprocessmodellingstageandthesubsequentdeformation- diffusion-fracture simulations, as well as their couplings. Then, the results are presented in Sec- tion 3. Residual stress states, hydrogen distributions and cracking patterns are obtained for two well-characterised seam weld configurations under varying conditions. The quantitative nature of these predictions is strengthened by the ability of the model to predict crack growth resis- tance behaviour (R-curves) in pipeline steels (X52 and X80), showing a very good match with experiments (see Appendix A). The manuscript ends with concluding remarks in Section
__label__energy	Market Potential for CO 2Removal and Sequestration from Renewable Natural Gas Production in California Jun Wong UC Berkeley, Environmental Science, Policy, and Management NYU Stern Jonathan Santoso UC Berkeley, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Marjorie Went UC Berkeley, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Daniel Sanchez UC Berkeley, Environmental Science, Policy, and Management May 2021 Abstract Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Sequestration (BECCS) is critical for stringent climate change mitigation, but is commercially and technologically immature and resource-intensive. In California, state and federal fuel and climate policies can drive rst-markets for BECCS. We develop a spatially explicit optimization model to assess niche markets for renewable natural gas (RNG) pro- duction with carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) from waste biomass in California. Existing biomass residues produce biogas and RNG and enable low-cost CCS through the upgrading process and CO 2truck transport. Under current state and federal policy incentives, we could capture and sequester 2.9 million MT CO 2 year (0.7 of California s 2018 CO 2emissions) and produce 93 PJ RNG year (4 of California s 2018 natural gas demand) with a pro t maximizing objective. Ex- isting federal and state policies produce pro ts of 11 GJ. Distributed RNG production with CCS potentially catalyzes markets and technologies for CO 2capture, transport, and storage in California. Keywords : Biogas, Carbon capture, Renewable natural gas, BECCS, Niche markets Correspoding author: sanchezd berkeley.edu. 1arXiv:2105.01644v1 eess.SY 4 May 2021 Introduction Deep decarbonization of the energy system critically relies on Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Se- questration (BECCS) to produce low-carbon and carbon-negative products such as heat, electricity, and fuels (1). Current BECCS deployment has been lagging the scales envisaged in century-scale climate change mitigation scenarios. Instead it is limited to a handful of demonstration projects in corn ethanol and waste-to-energy production (2, 3, 4). Based on this disparity, numerous scholars have argued for a bottom up approach to BECCS commercialization based on niche markets, scale-up, regionally appropriate feedstocks, and local policies (5, 6, 7). In these contexts, small-scale (megatonne scale) commercially viable opportunities for BECCS are necessary to promote more widespread adoption of carbon removal. Technology and policy analyses that identify opportunities to leverage existing infras- tructure, deploy existing technologies, and capitalize on current policies can enhance mitigation e orts by developing experience in carbon capture, transport, sequestration, and removal (2). Moreover, estab- lishing rst-markets for BECCS-use can further incentivize and accelerate innovation in this eld. We explore such an opportunity in California (CA), producing renewable natural gas with carbon capture and sequestration (RNG-CCS). California is well-positioned for BECCS implementation. The state s economy yields large volumes of waste biomass from forestry, urban and agricultural activities. In total, California produced 54 million bone dry tons (BDT) of biomass residues in 2018 (8). This is projected to grow to 71 million bdt per year by 2050. At the same time, its geography is well-suited for CO 2storage (9). Over 24,000 km2of non-urban area in the Central Valley, Bay Area, North Coast, and greater Los Angeles area (10 of California s total land area) is suitable for CO 2sequestration (Figure 1). In total, the state has over 200 GtCO 2of total sequestration capacity. We estimate that in-state capacity-weighted sequestration costs are around 1.35 tCO 2(2)1. Current state and federal fuel and climate policies can drive rst-markets for BECCS in California. In particular, the California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS), federal 45Q carbon sequestration tax credit, and federal Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) can all be used to incentivize BECCS. Established in 2011, California s LCFS provides nancial incentives for low-carbon and carbon-negative transportation fuels through tradeable CO 2abatement credits (10). In 2019, California s Air Resources Board amended the LCFS to allow for CCS projects to generate additional LCFS credits (11). Abatement credits are performance-based, proportionate to the carbon intensity reduction relative to a benchmark fossil fuel 1This estimate includes injection and monitoring costs. Please refer to Sanchez et al. (2) and the supplmentary infor- mation. 2 (E100). Historical credit prices ranged from 160-192 tCO 2abated between 2018-2020. In 2018, the federal government enhanced its existing tax credit for geologic CO 2sequestration, providing 45Q tax credits as high as 50 tCO 2sequestered for dedicated storage for facilities capturing over 100,000 tCO 2per year. In addition, the federal RFS subsidizes the production of renewable fuels through the distribution of Renewable Identi cation Number (RIN) credits. Various biofuels are eligible to receive di erent classes of RIN credits on a volume-basis (one credit is a Gallon Gasoline Equivalent (GGE)): lignocellulosic biofuels receive D3 credits, which often receive higher prices, while advanced (non-corn starch) biofuels receive D5 credits. D3 credits have traded at 0.59-2.74 GGE in 2018-2020, while D5 credits have traded at 0.38-0.85 GGE. In recent years, California s waste management policies have been in favor of biomass utilization. SB 1383, signed into law in 2016, is a broad methane reduction strategy in California that targets a 40 decrease in methane emissions by 2030 and 75 decrease in organic waste sent to land lls by 2025. The bill speci cally targets dairy emissions: it requires a 40 decrease of dairy production-related methane emissions by 2030. Beyond dairy, the legislation targets a 50 reduction in the level of the statewide disposal of organic waste from the 2014 level by 2020 and a 75 reduction by 2025 (12). SB1383 necessitates innovative methods to process waste biomass. Anaerobic digestion, electricity generation, biochar production for land application, and composting are all methods that can utilize the available biomass residues and potentially meet the SB1383 goals. Of these applications, RNG-CCS through anaerobic digestion is a particularly attractive candidate to meet both the organic waste diversion and methane emissions goals while simultaneously producing carbon-negative fuels. Given the policy and resource context, California has seen large growth in biogas and renewable natural gas production from biomass via anaerobic digestion and land ll gas collection. Anaerobic digestion, a sequence of processes by which microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen, has been used as a technology for
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	A New Equation of State for CCS Pipeline Transport: Calibration of Mixing Rules for Binary Mixtures of CO 2with N 2;O2and H 2 Thomas A. Demetriades KBC Advanced Technologies, Westmead House, Farnborough, Hampshire, GU14 7LP. Richard S. Graham School of Mathematical Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. July 7, 2015 Abstract One of the aspects currently holding back commercial scale deploy- ment of carbon capture and storage (CCS) is an accurate understanding of the thermodynamic behaviour of carbon dioxide and relevant impurities during the pipeline transport stage. In this article we develop a general framework for deriving pressure-explicit EoS for impure CO 2. This exi- ble framework facilitates ongoing development of custom EoS in response to new data and computational applications. We use our method to gen- eralise a recent EoS for pure CO 2 Demetriades et al. Proc IMechE Part E, 227 (2013) pp. 117 to binary mixtures with N 2, O2and H 2, obtaining model parameters by tting to experiments made under conditions rele- vant to CCS-pipeline transport. Our model pertains to pressures up to 16MPa and temperatures between 273K and the critical temperature of pure CO 2. In this region, we achieve close agreement with experimental data. When compared to the GERG EoS, our EoS has a comparable level of agreement with CO 2-N2VLE experiments and demonstrably superior agreement with the O 2and H 2VLE data. Finally, we discuss future op- tions to improve the calibration of EoS and to deal with the sparsity of data for some impurities. 1arXiv:1507.01545v1 physics.chem-ph 2 Jul 2015 1 Introduction and Background 1.1 Carbon capture and storage Carbon capture and storage is a crucial technology in the international e orts to meet carbon dioxide emission targets 1 . Capturing CO 2from industrial sources can lead to a 90 reduction in emissions. However, no gas separa- tion process is 100 e cient, and as a result the CO 2generated from power generation or by industry can contain a number of di erent impurities, depend- ing on its source. These impurities can, depending on their composition and concentration, greatly in uence the physical properties of the uid compared to pure CO 2. Impurities have important design, safety and cost implications for the compression and transport of CO 2and its storage location, for example geological sequestration. This research is designed to tackle one of the key tech- nical challenges facing the development of commercially viable CO 2transport networks: modelling physical behaviour of impure CO 2, under the conditions typically found in carbon capture from power stations, and in high-pressure (liquid phase) and low-pressure (gas phase) pipelines. Accurate modelling of the physical properties of CO 2mixtures is essential for the design and opera- tion of compression and transport systems for CO 2. In particular the variation of uid density and phase-behaviour with temperature and pressure is key to many CCS processes. For example, pipeline transport of CO 2is only viable if the uid remains in the homogenous phase. There has been recent work to de ne the expected operating conditions for CCS pipelines 2, 3 . The most e cient way of transporting CO 2is in the homogenous phase, at pressures in the vicinity of its critical point. For the transport temperature, the upper temperature will be set by the compressor discharge temperature and the temperature limits of the pipeline coating and the lower temperature will correspond to the winter ground temperature of the surrounding soil 4 . Expected impurity levels are about .4 , with N 2, O2and H2being key impurities 2, 3, 5, 6 . This range of pressure, temperature and impurity level de ne pipeline operating conditions and provide a target window for CCS-oriented modelling. However, CCS-relevant models should aspire to model a wider range of conditions, particularly for the impurity level, for the following reasons. Coexistence leads to the formation of a vapour phase that is considerably richer in impurity than the overal mixture. Upset conditions, in which a greater concentration of impurity is accidentally introduced into the CO2stream, must be understood and mitigated for. Finally, an e ective way to ensure physical robustness of the model is to test for a wider range of impurity conditions. 1.2 CO 2modelling in CCS In models of the CCS process, the uid behaviour of CO 2mixtures is typically predicted by an equation of state (EoS). EoS vary in their mathematical form, accuracy, region of validity and computational complexity. Because di erent 2 applications have di erent requirements there is no single EoS that is ideal for all applications. In particular, there is a balance between mathematical simplicity and accuracy of prediction. To optimise their accuracy, EoS need to be calibrated by tting their parameters to experimental measurements on CO2mixtures. However, new measurements become available very frequently, o ering the opportunity to improve the models. Thus, there is an ongoing need to regularly rederive, re ne and reparameterise EoS. Currently, the inability to rapidly assimilate ongoing measurements into suitable EoS delays or prevents knowledge gained from experiments from being applied in CCS modelling. A pressure-explicit EoS is an expression for a uid s pressure P , as a func- tion of molar volume v and temperature T . Usually, the terms in the model that describe the deviation from ideal gas behaviour are empirically postulated. A widely used example is the Peng Robinson equation 7 . Such EoS gives an explicit prediction of the pressure-volume curve for homogeneous uids and can also predict the coexistence behaviour. For thermodynamic co-existence, the coexisting phases must have matched fugacity for each chemical species, which is equivalent to matching the chemical potential. This translates into a constraint involving the integral of P over volume, at constant temperature. Thus, the coexistence behaviour can be predicted by numerically searching for two volumes that obey both the EoS and thermodynamic coexistence require- ment. Typically, EoS contain empirical parameters that are estimated by tting the EoS to experimental data for the pure material. These parameter are gen- eralised to mixtures
__label__energy	Data Driven Transfer Functions and Transmission Network Parameters for GIC Modelling M. J. Heyns y, C. T. Gaunt , S. I. Lotzyand P. J. Cilliers y Department of Electrical Engineering University of Cape Town (UCT), Cape Town, South Africa ySouth African National Space Agency (SANSA) Hermanus, South Africa mheyns sansa.org.za Abstract Typical geomagnetically induced current (GIC) modelling assumes the induced quasi-DC current at a node in the transmission network is linearly related to the local geoelectric ﬁeld by a pair of network parameters. Given a limited time-series of measured geomagnetic and GIC data, an empirical method is presented that results in a statistically signiﬁcant generalised ensemble of parameter estimates with the error in the estimates identiﬁed. The method is showcased for different transmission networks and geomagnetic storms and, where prior modelling exists, shows improved GIC estimation. Furthermore, modelled networks can be locally characterised and probed without any further network knowledge. Insights include network parameter variation, effective network directionality and response. Merging the network parameters and geoelectric ﬁeld estimation, a transfer function is derived which offers an alternative approach to assessing transformer exposure to GICs. Index Terms Ensemble estimation, geomagnetically induced currents (GICs), transmission network parameters I. I NTRODUCTION The effects of geomagnetically induced currents (GICs) in communications and power systems were well known for many years before the ﬁrst signiﬁcant papers on calculating the GICs appeared 1 . Initially, the driving near-Earth current system was modelled as a line or sheet, giving by ﬁrst prin- ciples different answers for the power line currents. Another approach gave the transformer neutral currents directly - by calculating the DC-equivalent of the voltages induced in the whole network by a uniform plane-wave 2 . For a given node, the traditional nodal modelling formulation is GIC (t) aEx(t) bEy(t); (1) whereaandbare derived constants based on network topology and resistances assuming 1 V km geoelectric (E- ﬁeld) components ExandEy, wherexandyindicates the North and East directions respectively. These E-ﬁeld com- ponents are typically not measured, but rather derived from This work was supported in part by a grant from the Open Philanthropy Project. The authors would like to further acknowledge Eskom and the EPRI Sunburst project for measured GIC data in South Africa and similarly Powerlink Queensland in Australia and Tennessee Valley Authority in the USA, for which CTG is a strategic partner.the measured geomagnetic ﬁeld (B-ﬁeld). The E-ﬁeld and B-ﬁeld can be related in the frequency domain through the surface impedance. Surface impedance models have varying degrees of complexity and of the several methods developed, a multi-layered ground conductivity is widely used due to its generality, simplicity and apparent accuracy 3 . Regardless of E-ﬁeld derivation method, assumptions of DC-equivalence and constant network parameters remain in GIC modelling approaches. A recent paper 4 examined the DC-equivalence assumption by comparing measured E-ﬁeld and GIC data at a node, showing that empirical aandbparameters as deﬁned by (1) in the frequency domain are frequency dependent. The source of the frequency dependence is difﬁcult to pin down since the measured E-ﬁeld at a single node is not necessarily the same as the network effective E-ﬁeld. This current work follows the nodal formulation of (1), but differs signiﬁcantly in that the network parameters are not assumed to be constant. Relaxing this assumption allows for a simple approach of a fast, effective transform from B-ﬁeld to GIC with accurate effective network parameter estimation, while acknowledging possible unmodelled frequency dependence and other uncer- tainty, directly applicable to planning and operations. Building from the nodal formalism of GIC modelling, the ensemble methodology of network parameter estimation is presented in Section II. Three different datasets from around the world are used to generate network parameter ensembles and test their performance in Section IV, with the data used described in Section III. Section IV-A looks speciﬁcally into the characteristics of GICs in the local networks derived from the network parameter ensembles. Section IV-B further expands the ensemble methodology to compute transfer func- tions straight from B-ﬁeld to GIC. Both the E-ﬁeld to GIC and B-ﬁeld to GIC ensemble methods are tested in Section IV-C. The focus throughout this paper is on operational modelling, with emphasis on estimating the uncertainty associated with traditional modelling. II. E NSEMBLE ESTIMATION Traditional GIC modelling recognizes three steps in cal- culating transformer neutral currents: derivation of local B- ﬁeld components from suitable measured or interpolated mag- netic measurements; a frequency dependent transform through Accepted to the 21st Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC 2020)arXiv:2004.08837v2 physics.space-ph 22 Jun 2020 the surface impedance to an E-ﬁeld; and network analysis. Assuming the driving disturbance B-ﬁeld from near-Earth current systems is spatially uniform and vertically incident at the Earth s surface, along with laterally homogeneous ground conductivity, a conservative E-ﬁeld would be produced through Faraday s law. Given a purely resistive network, the system can be modelled perfectly by (1). Although these assumptions can be justiﬁed as approximations, there are several challenges to traditional GIC modelling. Ground conductivity is not laterally homogeneous and interfaces, such as the coast, can have a signiﬁcant effect on the magnitude and direction of the induced E-ﬁeld 5 . Adding that the driving current systems do not produce a uniform B-ﬁeld over an area the size of a network, the E-ﬁeld is not strictly conservative and the transmission line shape is signiﬁcant 3 . The network analysis needed to derive the network parameters is not trivial and the entire network needs to be taken into account 6 . Individual transformers can inﬂuence each other 7 , along with different voltage levels and possible non-linear inductive network response which is the topic of very recent research 8 , 9 . There are also variables such as the effect of rainfall on grounding resistance that add unmodelled complexity 10 . Given the multitude of higher-order effects, the current state of the art, which makes use of dense electromagnetic surveys and requires detailed network information, still does not fully model the nature of measured GICs. In comparison the traditional modelling framework does surprisingly well,
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Modelling the Formation of Peer-to-Peer Trading Coalitions and Prosumer Participation Incentives in Transactive Energy Communities Ying Zhanga,b, Valentin Robua,c,f, Sho Cremersa,d, Sonam Norbue, Benoit Couraude, Merlinda Andonie, David Flynne, H. Vincent Poorf aIntelligent and Autonomous Systems Group, CWI (National Research Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science), Amsterdam, The Netherlands bAlgorithmics Group, Delft University of Technology, Delft, The Netherlands cElectrical Engineering Department, Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands dIntelligent Electrical Power Grids Group, Delft University of Technology, Delft, The Netherlands eJames Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK fElectrical and Computer Engineering, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA Abstract Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading and energy communities have garnered much attention over in recent years due to increasing investments in local energy generation and storage assets. Much research has been performed on the mechanisms and methodologies behind their implementation and realisation. However, the efficiency to be gained from P2P trading, and the structure of local energy markets raise many important challenges. To analyse the efficiency of P2P energy markets, in this work, we consider two different popular approaches to peer-to-peer trading: centralised (through a central market maker clearing entity) vs. fully decentralised (P2P), and explore the comparative economic benefits of these models. We focus on the metric of Gains from Trade (GT), given optimal P2P trading schedule computed by a schedule optimiser. In both local market models, benefits from trading are realised mainly due to the diversity in consumption behaviour and renewable energy generation between prosumers in an energy community. Both market models will lead to the most promising P2P contracts (the ones with the highest Gains from Trade) to be established first. Yet, we find diversity decreases quickly as more peer-to-peer energy contracts are established and more prosumers join the market, leading to significantly diminishing returns. In this work, we aim to quantify this effect using real-world data from two large-scale smart energy trials in the UK, i.e. the Low Carbon London project and the Thames Valley Vision project. Our experimental study shows that, for both market models, only a small number of P2P contracts i.e. less than 10 of the possible P2P contracts are required to achieve the majority of the maximal potential Gains from Trade. Similarly, only a fraction of prosumers are required to participate in energy trading to realise significant GT; namely we found that 60 of the maximal GT can be realised with only 30 of prosumers participation, with the percentage of maximal GT reaching 80 when participation increases to 50 of prosumers. Finally, we study the effect that diversity in consumption profiles has on overall trading potential and dynamics in an energy community. We show that in a community with a DF(load diversity factor) 1, 80 of potential maximal GT can be achieved by 10 of prosumers engaging in P2P trading, while in a community with DF 1.5, it is beneficial for 40 of the prosumers to trade. Keywords: Peer-to-peer trading, Energy Community, Negotiation Subscripts and Sets K Sub set of agents in the coalition ( K N). NSet of all agents in the community considered in the model. iFor agents. jFor agents. Preprint submitted to Elsevier November 21, 2023arXiv:2311.11192v1 eess.SY 19 Nov 2023 Parameters EbatiBattery capacity installed at agent ipremises. PPViSolar PV Power installed at agent ipremises. T Time horizon. λ Lifetime of the generator. τb(t) Buying price (i.e. import tariff) at t pence kWh . τs(t) Selling price (i.e. export tariff) at t pence kWh . cg kWCost of the generator pence kW . cbat kWh Cost of the battery pence kWh . dl The deadline of negotiation. k Number of peers in the negotiation framework. Variables Ωa i Energy contracts accepted by agent i. Ωi Set of all possible energy contracts for agent i. Ω Set of all possible energy contracts. Θ Peer-to-peer oracle. ω Energy contract tuple ( i, j, θ ). θ(t) Energy amount traded at time tdecided by Θ. θ Energy amounts traded decided by Θ. ebi(T) Accumulated bill for agent iat time Tafter trading. eeb i(t) Energy bought by agent iafter peer-to-peer trading. ees i(t) Energy sold by agent iafter peer-to-peer trading. eei(t) Net demand for agent iafter peer-to-peer trading. bi(T) Accumulated bill for agent iat time T. bN(T) Accumulated bill for community Nat time T. bK(T) Accumulated bill for P2P coalition Kat time T. bK(T) Accumulated bill for coalition Kat time T. cg i(T) Generator costs for agent ioverT. cg K(T) Generator costs for KoverT. cbat i(T) Battery degradation cost for agent ioverT. cbat K(T) Battery degradation cost for KoverT. di(t) Demand for agent i. dK(t) Aggregated demand for K. eb i(t) Energy imported by agent i. eb K(t) Energy imported by K. es i(t) Energy exported by agent i. es K(t) Energy exported by K. ep2p i(t) Energy traded by agent i. ei(t) Net demand for agent i. gi(t) Generation for agent i. gK(t) Aggregated generation for K. oi(r) The offer that agent iproposes in round r. pbat(t) Battery power at time t. rvi The reservation value of agent i, i.e. the minimum utility the agent will accept.. r The round number of negotiation. t Time step. umax i The maximum utility that can be gained by agent ifrom trading. vi(ω) Value of the contract ωgained by agent i. 2 Acronyms DF Depreciation Factor. GT Gains from Trade. P2P Peer-to-peer. RES Renewable Energy Source. SoC State of Charge of a battery in kWh. 1. Introduction Energy systems around the world are experiencing rapid changes. Until recently, energy systems were primarily centralised networks managed by large utility companies. However, currently a paradigm shift is taking place in energy systems across the world 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 . Recent years have seen many initiatives for creating local energy communities, typically low voltage networks consisting of 50-200 households 6 . Some notable examples of these initiatives include: the Brooklyn Microgrid project1, the REflex smart energy demonstrator on the Orkney Islands2, the many local projects projects managed by Community Energy Scotland3, the SchoonSchip Community in the north of
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	Wind Energy Conversion System a Laboratory Setup Cristian VASAR , Octavian PROSTEAN , Ioan FILIP , Iosif SZEIDERT Politehnica University of Timisoara, Department of Automation and Applied Informatics, Timisoara, Rom ania cristian.vasar aut.upt.ro Abstract This paper presents a laboratory setup usable for the design and testing of a Wind Energy Conversion System respectively their control solutions. The stand can be used for research or in the engineering educational syst em offering the possibility of studying the behavior o f wind energy conversion systems, including testing of som e adequate control techniques, allowing the transitio n from simple simulations on the computer to practical fun ctional tests, much closer to the reality of the site. The stand architecture is based on a hardware platform integr ating electrical machines, control equipment, power devic es, sensors, computing systems and appropriate software , all allowing one flexible configuration to test a multi tude of scenarios specific to the wind energy domain. The w ind turbine is emulated using an asynchronous motor wit h direct torque control based on rotating speed measu rement. The controlled torque is applied to a synchronous ge nerator and the output power is injected into the grid. I. INTRODUCTION In the present days it can be noticed a significant interest of both industrial and scientific communit ies in developing the green technologies in general, and renewable energy in particular, in order to contrib ute to a sustainable development. The usage of renewable ene rgy was limited by insufficient knowledge that allows e fficient harvesting and storing of clean energy. Thus there is an important need of education for sustainable develop ment with a transdisciplinary vision integrating technic al, economic, social and environmental aspects recogniz ing their interlinkages. Nowadays, the main idea of operating wind aggregate s is to maximize the harvested energy during a specif ic time period. There are considered maximum power point tracking techniques. In this order of idea, to achi eve the functioning at a maximum power point, the tip-speed ratio must be kept at an optimal imposed value regardless of the wind gusts 1 . A major role in the wind aggregates behavior is played by the used control structures a nd strategies. The main controlled variables are repre sented by the power, speed and torque 2 . In order to properly analyze wind energy conversion systems (wind turbines) there are usually used real time emulators, for cost reduction. Testing a wind turbi ne in a wind tunnel can be an expensive solution. Thus, an emulator can reproduce the behavior of a real wind turbine in different functioning regimes. The static and dynamic characteristics of a wind tu rbine must be similar enough to the ones of the real wind turbine. The main advantage of a emulator system is that the system can be easily software reconfigured 3 . The testing of the electrical generator also can be per formed by using a wind turbine emulator, in different regimes , such as grid of standalone operating regimes 4 . Power electronics curriculum is an important part o f a modern power engineering education, covering variou s areas as renewable energy, variable-speed drives, e lectric vehicles, robotics, interfacing energy sources with the grid, flexible transmission lines, and many other applications 5 . Usually the theoretical concepts are presented via a lecture based course. However the m ethod for providing engineers with practical experience i n energy conversion systems varies from one education al or research institution to another, a wide area of exp erimental laboratory setups being reported in the scientific literature as presented in 6 7 8 9 10 and 11 . II. GENERAL STRUCTURE OF THE WECS The kinetic energy available in the wind can be converted in mechanical energy that can be used dir ectly to power various machinery (as grain mill or water pumps) or can be converted into electrical energy u sing wind turbines coupled with electric generators. Win d energy conversion has become a reliable and competi tive means for electric power generation, the life span of modern wind turbines being around 20-25 years, whic h is comparable to many other conventional power generat ion technologies. Generally, the availability of wind energy supply cannot be controlled like energy conversion from fo ssil sources 12 . Wind energy has a stochastic fluctuat ing behavior, being important to consider operation in transient non-stationary wind conditions 13 . The major components of a typical wind energy conversion system, as depicted in Figure 1, include a wind turbine, an electric generator, interconnection int erfaces and control systems. In certain application there i s also a gearbox, in order to adapt the wind turbine rotatio n speed to generator characteristic for optimizing the harv ested energy. The wind turbine is the element that captures the w ind energy and converts into mechanical rotation, provi ding torque, rotation speed and mechanical power to elec tric generator. The electric generators convert mechanic al power into electric power. Currently, for wind ener gy conversion systems there are used synchronous generators, permanent magnet synchronous generators , and induction generators, including the squirrel-ca ge type and wound rotor type. For small to medium power win d turbines, permanent magnet generators and squirrel- cage Figure 2. WECS laboratory setup Figure 1. WECS general structure Figure 3. Asynchronous motor connected to permanent magnet synchronous generator induction generators are often used because of thei r reliability and cost advantages. Induction generators, permanent magnet synchronous generators, and wound field synchronous generators are currently used in various high power wind turbines. Power electronic converters are used as interconnection equipment in order to achieve power control, soft s tart, and interconnection functions. Most modern turbine inverters are forced commutated PWM inverters to provide a fixed voltage and fixed frequency output with a high power quality. The load is a very important e lement, thus there are two important scenarios regarding th e consumer type that determine the power electronic converter structure and control strategy: insulated consumers and
__label__energy	International Journal of Science and Management Studies (IJSMS) E-ISSN: 2581 -5946 DOI: 10.51386 25815946 ijsms -v4i4p1 29 Volume: 4 Issue: 4 July to August 2021 https: www.ijsmsjournal.org This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC-ND license (http: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 ) Page 315 Development of Microcontroller Based Smart Grid Framework Saurav Biswas Department Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) , Bangladesh University of Business and Technology Bangladesh Abstract Smart grid technology has b een re cognized as a promising solution for the next -generation energy efficient electric power system s to mitigate energy crisis. Smart grid provides highly consistent and reliable services, efficient energy management practices, smart metering integration , auto mation and precision decision support systems and self -healing facilities. The smart power grid introduces a sensing, monitoring, and control system that provides end users with the cost of energy at any moment through real -time pricing. The classica l powe r system operation has no control over the loads except in an emergency situation when a portio n of the loads can be dropped as needed to balance the power grid generation with its loads. Furthermore, the smart power grid supplies the platform for th e use of renewable energy sources that acts as a safeguard against a complete blackout of the interc onnected power grid. In this work, all the concepts involved in smart grid mechanism is implemented with PIC 18F452 microcontroller and other supplementary c ompone nts. A solar module with storage capacity is connected to the proposed system for minimizing g rid energy consumption and plays a primary energy source for maximum utilization of green energy. This intelligent device may inherently reduce the consumpt ion o f electrical energy during peak hours and allow consumers to sell back electricity into grid using bi -directional technique. Barriers, challenges, benefits and future trends regarding the technologies and the role of users have also been discussed in this paper. Keywords - Smart Grid, Microcontroller, Automation, and Renewable Energy. I. INTRODUCTION The utility sector has always taken advantage of advances in communication and information technology to improve efficiency, dependability, security, and s ervice q uality . Increasing complexity in managing the bulk power grid, growing environmental concerns, energy sustainability and independence, demand growth, and the pursuit of service quality all highlight the need for a quantum leap in use of such techno logy. Th is leap tow ard a smarter grid is widely referred to as smart grid. 1 . The operational data acquired by the smart grid and its sub-systems will allow system operators to quickly identify the optimal plan for securing against various situations like as assaults, vulnerabilities, and so on. A fixed price is charged to energy users in a traditional power grid. The daily peak load operation, on the other hand, has the largest energy cost. Except in an emergency, wh en a portion of the loads can be r educed a s needed to balance the power grid generation with its loads, traditional power system operation has no control over the loads. As a result, most grid elements are only employed for a brief time during peak power d emand and are idle during normal o peration . To maint ain reliability, stability, and efficiency, today s electric grid was built as a vertical system that included generation, transmission, and distribution, as well as controls and devices. However, system op erators are now confronted with additio nal problem s, such as RER penetration in legacy systems, fast technological development, and a variety of market competitors and end users. The smart grid, the next generation, will include communication support schem es and real -time measuring tech niques t o improve r esiliency and forecasting, as well as guard against internal threats. The smart grid s design framework is focused on unbundling and reorganizing the electricity industry, as well as optimizing its assets. Significant infrastructure investment i n the form of a communication system, cyber network, sensors, and smart meters must be implemented to curb system peak demands when the cost of electric energy is highest for an effective smart power grid system design and operation. The smart powe r grid i ncludes a s ensing, monitoring, and control system that provides end -users with real -time energy cost pricing. Furthermore, smart metering s sophisticated control systems allow energy customers to react quickly to real -time pricing. It safeguards th e connec ted electri cal networks from total blackouts induced by man -made or natural calamities. It also allows for the disaggregation of the connected electrical grid into smaller regional clusters. Furthermore, the smart power grid International Journal of Science and Management Studies (IJSMS) E-ISSN: 2581 -5946 DOI: 10.51386 25815946 ijsms -v4i4p1 29 Volume: 4 Issue: 4 July to August 2021 https: www.ijsmsjournal.org This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC-ND license (http: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 ) Page 316 allows anybody to becom e an ene rgy produce r by allowing anyone to employ solar or wind energy, fuel cells, or combined heat and power (CHP) energy sources, as well as participate in the energy market by buying or selling energy via the smart meter connection 2 . In next genera tion ele ctrical sys tems that combine different renewable energy sources, automated and smart management is a critical component for evaluating the efficacy and ef ficiency of these power systems 3 . The Smart Grid name is meant for management automation an d intell igence in t erms of a variety of benefits over existing systems in terms of digitalization, flexibility, intelligence, resilience, sustainability, and standards 4-6 . Intelligent control centres should be able to remotely monitor and engage with el ectrical equipment in real time, intelligent transmission infrastructures should employ new technologies to enhance power quality, and intelligent substations should consciously coordinate their local devices 7-8 . Thanks to significant advancements in sy stem aut omation and intelligence, the notion of the Energy internet 9
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	TRANSLATING THE INTERNAL CLIMATE VARIABILITY FROM CLIMATE VARIABLES TO HYDROPOWER PRODUCTION Divya Upadhyay Discipline of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, IndiaSudhanshu Dixit Discipline of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, India Udit Bhatia Discipline of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, India bhatia.u iitgn.ac.in ABSTRACT Quantifying uncertainties in estimating future hydropower production directly or indirectly affects India s energy security, planning, and management. The chaotic and nonlinear nature of atmospheric processes results in considerable Internal Climate Variability (ICV) for future projections of climate variables. Multiple initial condition ensembles and multi-model ensembles of earth system models are often used to analyze the role of ICV and model uncertainty in precipitation and temperature. However, there are limited studies focusing on quantifying the role of internal variability on impact variables, including hydropower production. In this study, we analyze the role of internal variability and model uncertainty on three prominent hydropower plants of India using multiple initial condition ensembles of the EC-Earth3 and multiple models from CMIP6. We estimate the streamﬂow projections for all ensembles using the Variable Inﬁltration Capacity (VIC) hydrological model for four time periods, historical (1985-2014), near-term (2015-2044), mid-term (2045-2074) and far-term (2075-2100). We estimate maximum hydropower production generated using monthly release and hydraulic head available at the reservoir. We also analyzed the role of bias correction in hydropower production. The results show that ICV plays a signiﬁcant role in estimating streamﬂow and hydropower estimation for monsoon and throughout the year, respectively. Model uncertainty contributes more to total uncertainty than ICV in estimating the streamﬂow and potential hydropower. However, ICV is increasing towards the far-term. We also show that bias correction does not preserve the internal variability in estimating the streamﬂow. Although there is an increase in uncertainty for estimated streamﬂow, mean hydropower shows the decrease towards the far-term for February to May, more prominent for MICE than MME. The results suggest a need to incorporate uncertainty due to internal variability for addressing power security in changing climate scenarios. Keywords Internal climate variability model uncertainty hydropower production streamﬂow estimation bias correction 1 Introduction Sustaining an optimal reservoir operation under various uncertainties is challenging in changing climate for hydropower production. The increasing population, urbanization and industrialization raise the demand for the energy consumption of fossil fuels, water, material, and available natural resources, which further poses the issue of energy security and clean environment 1,2 . The large energy requirement in India is fulﬁlled by non-renewable sources, which is fast depleting 3 . Hydropower is a vital source of renewable energy, which provides over 72 of all renewable energy globally 4 . However, only about 17 of hydropower potential of 150,000 MW has been tapped in India 5 . For India, hydropower and small hydropower are the second-highest contributors towards renewable energy consumption, which is close to 12 of the total capacity 6 . The impacts of climate change on hydropower production affect energy generation in thearXiv:2203.01596v1 physics.ao-ph 3 Mar 2022 Translating the internal climate variability from climate variables to hydropower production near term and by the end of the 21st century 7,8,9,10 . Thus, tremendous opportunities in hydropower generation and its future expansion exist, which help us meet the soaring energy demands. However, hydropower production is directly related to the water availability in reservoirs that depends on streamﬂow, which is characterized by uncertainties of the processes that result in streamﬂow 7 . The uncertainty associated with precipitation, temperature and wind pattern of a region affects the streamﬂow uncertainty 11,12 . 13 have analyzed the effects of precipitation uncertainty on discharge calculations for 294 river basins worldwide and shown that average precipitation uncertainty (about 30 ) can lead to higher uncertainty in discharge (about 90 ). Quantiﬁcation of uncertainties associated with future projections of streamﬂow is a critical challenge for climate change impact studies 14 as it necessitates obtaining the range of possible future variations in streamﬂow projections 15 . Characterizing and quantifying uncertainty projection of streamﬂow and hydropower potential considering the climate change projections is important to plan for adaptation and mitigation 16 . It is essential to quantify and discuss the role of different uncertainties and their propagation to future hydrological projections as it is a fundamental characteristic of prediction 17 . The estimated variables uncertainty sources are forcing uncertainty, model uncertainty and internal climate variability 18,16,19 . The relative importance of different uncertainty sources varies depending on the type of variable, temporal and spatial scales, and speciﬁcally its nature 18,16,20 . For example, model uncertainty reﬂects our lack of knowledge or inability to encapsulate the existing knowledge within the climate models, and it is considered as potentially reducible as models improve 16 . The Multi-Model Ensembles (MMEs) are generally used to estimate the model uncertainty 21 . Whereas, Internal Climate Variability (ICV), which refers to natural variability that arises from processes in the coupled land, biosphere, ocean, atmosphere, and cryosphere system in the absence of external forcing 22,23 , considered as irreducible 24,25,26,27,28,29 . ICV dominates climate uncertainty over decadal prediction horizons at regional to local scales, where stakeholders are more interested 30 . It is typically handled by considering Multiple Initial Condition Ensembles (MICE), assuming that it satisfactorily captures the internal variability 22,31 . The MICE are generated by applying minor perturbations to the initial state of the model such that the different climate projections behave as surrogates of climate variability 26, 32, 33, 30, 34 . The importance of ICV has received considerable attention recently from scientiﬁc community 16,35,22,29,28,31 . Several studies have explored the role of internal variability to assess future climate outcomes such as surface air temperature, a vertical proﬁle of recent tropical temperature trends and precipitation 16,26,35,22,29,36 . A few studies have quantiﬁed role of ICV in estimating streamﬂow 37,38 , extreme precipitation 28,31 , sea-level rise 39 , air quality and associated health risks in a warming world 40 . 41 have criticised initial condition large ensembles as they are resource-intensive, redundant, and biased. Despite this criticism, they have shown
__label__energy	Structured Controller Parameter Tuning for Power SystemsI Amer Me ˇsanovi ca,b, Ulrich M unzd, Andrei Szabob, Martin Mangoldc, Joachim Bambergerc, Michael Metzgerb, Chris Heydec, Rainer Krebsc, Rolf Findeisena aLaboratory for Systems Theory and Automatic Control, Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg, Germany bSiemens AG, Otto-Hahn-Ring 6, Munich, Germany cSiemens AG, Freyeslebenstr. 1, Erlangen, Germany dSiemens Corp., 755 College Road East, Princeton, NJ, USA Abstract Reliable and secure operation of power systems becomes increasingly challenging as the share of volatile generation rises, leading to largely changing dynamics. Typically, the architecture and structure of controllers in power systems, such as voltage controllers of power generators, are ﬁxed during the design and buildup of the network. As replacing existing controllers is often undesired and challenging, setpoint adjustments, as well as tuning of the controller parameters, are possibilities to counteract changing dynamics. We present an approach for fast and computationally e cient adaptation of parameters of structured controllers based on H1 optimization, also referred to as structured H1controller synthesis, tailored towards power systems. The goal of the tuning is to increase the robustness of the system towards disturbances. Conditions are established that guarantee that the approach leads to stability. The results are veriﬁed in a testbed microgrid consisting of six inverters and a load bank, as well as in several simulation studies. Furthermore, the performance of the approach is compared to other tuning approaches, thereby demonstrating signiﬁcantly reduced computation times. The proposed method improves the system robustness, as well as the time-response to step disturbances and allows structured controller tuning even for large networks. Keywords: power system control, structured controller synthesis, H-inﬁnity design, linear matrix inequalities, distributed energy system, power oscillation damping, optimization 1. Introduction Reliable and secure electric power supply is vital for modern life. Power systems must operate without interruptions, despite unknown disturbances, such as outages of components, un- known load dynamics, and changes in power generation. Power systems consist of prosumers, such as power plants, wind tur- bines and users, which are interconnected by a power grid, c.f. Fig. 1. The reliable and safe operation of power systems is guaranteed today by a complete automation system, consist- ing of, e.g., PID controllers, notch ﬁlters, and lead-lag ﬁlters, controlling power system components spanning from power plants to inverters, ﬂexible AC transmission system elements and loads 1 . These automation systems result from careful considerations based on years of practical experience and oper- ation. Tuning of the corresponding controller parameters is very important for reliable operation. This is currently guaranteed by tuning and veriﬁcation during the installation of a component. The resulting controllers are typically not re-parameterized un- til a large problem in the system occurs 2 . Such manual tun- IThis work has been partially funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic A airs and Energy under Grant number 03ET7541A in the frame of the DynaGridCenter project, and under Grant number 0325685A in the frame of the IREN2 project. Email addresses: amer.mesanovic siemens.com (Amer Me ˇsanovi c), ulrich.muenz siemens.com (Ulrich M unz), rolf.findeisen ovgu.de (Rolf Findeisen)ing has proven to be su cient as long as the network and power plants do not change signiﬁcantly. While variations in the grid are constantly present due to load ﬂuctuations or generator out- ages, these variations are often predictable and can be consid- ered during the manual tuning procedure. Increasing amounts of renewable generation lead to large changes in the operation and the resulting dynamic behavior of the power systems 3 . Depending on the weather condi- tions, renewable generation can change constantly and can shift geographically. Furthermore, if the weather conditions are not suitable for renewable generation, the percentage of conven- tional generation needs to increase. These changes require new approaches e.g. for optimal power ﬂow calculation or unit com- mitment. In this work, we focus on the e ects of renewable generation on power system dynamics. The constantly shift- ing mix of renewable and conventional generation can lead to time-varying dynamics, i.e. oscillatory modes 4, 5, 6, 7 . If not handled, the controllers in large power systems, which are tuned today for ﬁxed oscillatory modes, become less e ective, increasing the risk of blackouts 5 . A simulation study show- ing the described e ects can be found in 7 . Thus, new control methods are necessary to improve the robustness of power net- works and to account for the changing dynamics. Furthermore, these methods will have to consider the dynamic behavior of conventional, as well as of inverter-based generation. We propose to adapt the parameters of controllers already Preprint submitted to Control Engineering Practice May 6, 2020arXiv:1910.12335v2 eess.SY 5 May 2020 present in power systems to the seemingly changing operating conditions. This approach has been recognized in the literature as a possible solution to handle time-varying dynamics 5, 6 . The overall tuning goal of the proposed approach is the reduc- tion of the system H1norm, which increases the system ro- bustness towards disturbances and typically improves the time- domain behavior. For this purpose, we introduce a controller parameter tuning method, which is applicable to a broad class of control structures and is scalable towards large scale sys- tems, i.e. is applicable to power systems ranging from micro- grids to transmission systems. We present an iterative convex optimization approach for structured H1controller synthesis of linear systems, which optimizes the parameters of existing controllers to current conditions in the system. We provide cer- tiﬁcates which guarantee stability of the optimal tuned system and evaluate the e ectiveness of the approach in realistic simu- lations, experimentally considering an inverter-only microgrid testbed. Controller synthesis for power systems typically exploits H1 optimization,H2optimization, and pole placement, c.f. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 . Other control design and anal- ysis approaches are sensitivity analysis 16, 17, 18 , slid- ing mode controller design 19 , the use of reference mod- els 20 , coordinated switching controllers 21 , genetic algo- rithms based tuning 22 , model predictive control 23 , and time-discretization 24 . An overview of di
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	1 Degradation of layered oxide cathode in a sodium battery : a detailed investigation by X-ray tomography at the nanoscale Daniele Di Lecce,a,b,c Vittorio Marangon,d Mark Isaacs,e,f Robert Palgrave,e,f Paul R. Shearing,b,c Jusef Hassouna,d,g a Graphene Labs, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, via Morego 30, Genova, 16163 , Italy b Electrochemical Innovation Lab, Department of Chemical Engineering, UCL, London , WC1E 7JE, United Kingdom c The Faraday Institution, Quad One, Becquerel Ave, Harwell Campus, Didcot , OX11 0RA United Kingdom d University of Ferrara, Department of Chemical , Pharmaceutical , and Agricultural Sciences, Via Fossato di Mortara 17, Ferrara , 44121, Italy e Department of Chemistry, UCL , 20 Gordon St, Bloomsbury, London , WC1H 0AJ , United Kingdom f HarwellXPS, Research Complex at Harwell, Rutherford Appleton Laboratories, Harwell, Didcot, OX11 0FA , United Kingdom g National Interuniversity Consortium of Materia ls Science and Technology (INSTM), University of Ferrara Research Unit, University of Ferrara, Via Fossato di Mortara, 17, 44121, Ferrara, Italy. Corresponding author: jusef.hassoun unife.it , jusef.hassoun iit.it . Abstract The degradation mechanism in sodium cell of a layered Na0.48Al0.03Co0.18Ni0.18Mn 0.47O2 cathode with P3 P2 structure is investigated by revealing the changes in microstructure and composition upon cycling . The work aims to rationalize the gradual performance decay and the alteration of the electrochemical response in terms of polarization , voltage signature , and capacity loss. Spatial reconstruction s of the electrode by X-ray com puted tomography at the nanoscale supported by 2 quantitative and qualitative analyses show fractures and deformations in the cycled layered metal - oxide particles , as well as inorganic side compounds deposited on the material . The se irreversible morphological modifications reflect structural heterogeneities across the cathode particles due to formation of various domains with different Na intercalation degree. Besides , X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy data suggest that the latter inorganic species in the cycled electrode are mainly composed of NaF, Na 2O, and NaCO 3 formed by parasitic electrolyte decomposition . The precipitation of these insulating compounds at the electrode electrolyte interphase and the related structural stresses induced in the material lead to a decrease in cathode particle siz e and partial loss of electrochemical activity. The retention of the Na0.48Al0.03Co0.18Ni0.18Mn 0.47O2 phase after cycling suggests that electrolyte upgrade may improve the performance of the cathode to achieve practical application for sustainable energy storage. Table of Content A sodium layered oxide cathode is observed with relevant detail using high -resolution X -ray computed tomography to disclose the reasons of capacity fade upon long -term cycling in the battery, and additional findings are given by X -ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Keywords Na-ion battery; X -ray imaging; tomography; intercalation; layered cathode ; XPS; cathode degradatio n. 3 Introduction Sodium -ion batteries are currently gaining a great deal of attention as viable alternatives to conventional lithium -ion systems , 1,2 in view of outstanding results recently obtained at the laboratory scale. 3,4 The investigation of sodium batteries began alongside pioneering studies demonstrating the electrochemical intercalation of alkali ions in chalcogenides , 5 which were driven by the high theoretical energy density of lithium, sodium, and potassium, hav ing a redox potential vs standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) of 3.04 V, 2.71 V, and 2.9 3 V, respectively , as well as a relatively low weight. 6 The concept of the rocking -chair battery introduced in 1980 7 was supported by groun dbreaking research on intercalation electrodes 5 and aprotic electrolyte media 8 which led to the commercialization of the first lithium -ion battery in 1991 . 9 This technology has become crucial in our society , being exploited in a vast variety of portable electronics, including smartphones, laptop s and tablets, as well as in electric vehicles (EVs) and in stationary energy storage systems . Therefore, t he Li-ion battery has gained increasing interest in the scientific community over recent years , 10 as acknowledged by the Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2019 rewarded t o M. S. Whittingham, J. B. Goodenough, and A. Yoshino. 11 On the other hand, the widespread diffusion of this intriguing electrochemical system and the growing demand from emerging markets , such as the electric and hybrid vehicles and the renewable energ y sector , are presently raising concerns about possible unbalances between consumption and production of raw materials , including high-quality lithium , which might affect their availability and the final cost to the consumer. 12 In principle , the sodium -ion cell involve s insertion electrodes that are analogous to those of lithium -ion systems, 13 so this new technology may be develop ed and manufactur ed using current battery assembly lines . 1 Sodium is widely abundant , has a relatively low cost as compared to lithium , and allows the use of aluminum instead of copper as a current collector at 4 the negative side. 13 Encouraging results have demonstrated that sodium -ion intercalation systems using thin-film electrodes and aprotic electrolyte solution s may exhibit very promising electrochemical behavior ; 14,15 however , a lowe r energy density than t hat of the lithium -ion counterpart is still an open issue . 16 In this scenario, the development of sodium -ion batteries may actually mitigate the price per kWh of electrochemical energy storage , which is particularly relevant to large -scale stationary applications. 17 Among the various cathode materials for sodium batteries investigated so far , 13 layered metal oxides with cryst al structure s similar to that of conventional LiCoO 2 and Ni-rich derivatives, e.g., LiNi 0.8Mn 0.1Co0.1O2 (NMC 811) and LiNi 0.8Co0.15Al0.05O2 (NCA), have shown high performance , particularly in terms of delivered capacity, both in half and in full cells. 3 These compounds may have the general formula Na1 xMO 2, where M is a transition metal, such as, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Ti, V, or Cr and x may vary from low values to unity . 3 Despite being capable of reversibly react ing in sodium cells with suitably fast kinetics and specific capacity , these layered cathodes
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Distributed ﬂexibility as a cost-effective alternative to grid reinforcement Jordan Holweger, Christophe Ballif, Nicolas Wyrsch Photovoltaics and thin ﬁlm electronics laboratory (PV-LAB) Ecole Polytechnique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL), Institute of Electrical and Micro Engineering (IEM) Neuch ˆatel, Switzerland fjordan.holweger, christophe.ballif, nicolas.wyrsch g epﬂ.ch Abstract The deployment of distributed photovoltaics (PV) in low-voltage networks may cause technical issues such as voltage rises, line ampacity violations, and transformer overloading for distribution system operators (DSOs). These problems may induce high grid reinforcement costs. In this work, we assume the DSO can control each prosumer s battery and PV system. Under such assumptions, we evaluate the cost of providing ﬂexibility and compare it with grid reinforcement costs. Our results highlight that using distributed ﬂexibility is more proﬁtable than reinforcing a low-voltage network until the PV generation covers 145 of the network annual energy demand. Index Terms PV , ﬂexibility, grid reinforcement cost, battery, optimal power-ﬂow I. I NTRODUCTION The fast deployment of distributed photovoltaics (PV) causes numerous challenges to distribution system operators (DSOs). The imbalance between local generation and load can create technical problems in low-voltage grids, such as line ampacity violations, overvoltage, and transformer over- loading 1 . A DSO must take countermeasures such as grid reinforcement (GR) 2 , 3 . Alternatively, future distributed PV systems might provide a signiﬁcant degree of ﬂexibility to reduce the need for GR. Indeed, battery energy storage systems (BESSs) 4 , inverter reactive power capability 5 , 6 , 7 , and active power curtailment (APC) are possible solutions to increase a network s ﬂexibility and mitigate GR costs 8 . Recent literature demonstrated that BESSs might increase a network s PV hosting capacity but are not competitive with GR 9 , 10 . This work compares the GR cost with the cost of harvesting distributed ﬂexibility, particularly BESS, APC, and inverter reactive power capabilities for various PV penetration levels. II. N OTATION AND BASIC FORMULAS This section aims to present the basic notation and symbols used in this paper. This work analyses a low-voltage grid with connected prosumers with a BESS, which are considered as static loads or generators injecting active and reactive powerPi;t;Qi;tat their grid connection points. The active power consists of the PV generation PPV i;t, the active power curtailment Pcur i;t, the BESS s exchange power Pbat i;t(positive when discharging), and the uncontrollable load Pload i;t. Fig. 1 illustrates the power balance of each prosumer. Fig. 1. System power balance. Sets: B;L;Ssets of buses, lines, and prosumers systems ( S B) respectively. Ltrset of transformer branches (pair of bus (ik)withi the high-voltage bus). Parameters: j p 1imaginary number. Pload i uncontrollable active power load at bus i. PPV iPV generation at bus i. Gik;Bikconductance susceptance on line (ik). x;x upper and lower limit for variable x. x ;x positive and negative part of x. qmax r inverter reactive power capabilities ratio (MV Ar MW). cimp,cexpimport and export tariff (consumer perspec- tive). L;r component lifetime and interest rate to calculate the annualisation factor R. Variables: Pbat i;t, battery active power (positive when discharging). Pcur i;t, PV active power curtailment uncontrollable active power load at bus i. QPV i;tPV inverter reactive power injection. Str itransformer apparent power. Vi;t,Iik;tvoltage magnitude at bus iand current in line (ik)and timet. ik;tvoltage angle difference between bus iandkat time t. 22nd Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2022Porto, Portugal June 27 July 1, 2022arXiv:2109.07305v1 eess.SY 15 Sep 2021 AC load ﬂow equations: Pi;t ( PPV i;t Pcur i;t Pbat i;t Pload i;ti2S 0 i2B S(1a) Qi;t ( QPV i;ti2S 0i2B S(1b) Pi;t Vi;tX k2BVk;t Gikcos ik;t Biksin ik;t (1c) Qi;t Vi;tX k2BVk;t Giksin ik;t Bikcos ik;t (1d) Iik;t (Gik jBik) (Vi;t Vk;t) (1e) Network operation constraints: V Vi;t V8i2B (2a) Iik;t I8(ik)2L (2b) Str i jVi;t Iik;tj Str i8(ik)2Ltr(2c) III. M ETHODOLOGY The methodology is based on a sequential approach. First, following the method described in 11 , the BESS s capacity Ebat capand its optimal control trajectory are optimised for each prosumer with a ﬁxed PV penetration (ﬁxed PV capacity for each system, PPV cap). The optimisation problem aims to min- imise the total cost of ownership of each BESS-PV system (3a) composed of the sum of the annualised BESS capital cost and the system operating cost (3b), subject to the power balance (1a). The operating costs (3b) are the cost of exchanging energy with the grid under an import and export tariff (from a prosumer s perspective) cimpandcexp, respectively. As the PV capacity is ﬁxed, it does not appear in the objective function. The term (3c) is a regularisation cost whose aim is to minimise battery usage. The annualisation factor Rdepends on the considered lifetime Land interest rate r. More details about the PV and BESS model can be found in 11 . Second, the load ﬂow problem (1a)-(1e) is solved at each point in time to calculate the network variable states, Vi;t,Iik;t, andStr i. Then, the annualised cost of GR (4a) is calculated as the sum of the cost of replacing lines (4b) because of line ampacity violation (4d), and the cost of replacing transformers due to an apparent power limit violation (4e). The annualisa- tion factorRgridis calculated as in (3d). The cost of replacing a line is proportional to the line length dland its speciﬁc cost per unit of length cline. The cost of replacing a transformer is simply the product of the transformer cost per unit of capacity ctrafoand the new maximum apparent power max tStr t. Third, distinct time domains t2 m; m 1:::M are constructed in which network constraints (2a)-(2c) are not satisﬁed. These contiguous time steps represent intervention periods in which the DSO must undertake actions to prevent violations of network constraints. To model these actions, we solve an optimal power-ﬂow problem for each period m with the goal of minimizing the PV curtailed energy (5a), which determines where and when to charge or discharge thebatteries, inject or absorb reactive power (within the inverter capability,qmax r constraints (5c)), and perform
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Unlocking the Potential of Renewable Energy Through Curtailment Prediction Bilge Acun1, Brent Morgan1, Carole-Jean Wu1, Henry Richardson2, Nat Steinsultz2 1Meta2WattTime Abstract A significant fraction (5-15 ) of renewable energy generated goes into waste in the grids around the world today due to oversupply issues and transmission constraints. Being able to predict when andwhere renewable curtailment occurs would improve renewable utilization. The core of this work is to enable the machine learning community to help decarbonize electricity grids by unlocking the potential of renewable energy through curtailment prediction. 1 Introduction Decarbonizing electricity grids reliably and cost-effectively is critical towards a clean energy future. Significant investment into renewable energy infrastructure from the past decade has dramatically increased the amount of wind and solar deployed on grids around the world from 630 TWh in 2012 to over 3,400 TWh in 2022 8 . However, as renewable generation increases, the amount of energy curtailed due to oversupply during certain hours also increases. Figure 1: Median (solid line) and 25 -75 range (shaded) of curtailment values, aggregated by time of day, for SPP (primarily wind curtailment) and CAISO (primarily solar curtailment).As intermittent renewable energy generation be- comes increasingly prevalent, the risk of curtail- ment grows significantly 13 . Curtailment is a key challenge facing the world where power grids are decarbonized. For example, 5-15 of the renewable energy generated is curtailed in Europe and China respectively 2 . In the US, in 2022, SPP curtailed over 11,000 GWh of wind energy, which was more than 10 of all wind energy produced in the region 16 . CAISO curtailed almost 2,450 GWh of renewable en- ergy which was almost 7 of all solar energy produced 9 , as illustrated in Figure 1. The curtailment is happening frequently as well, oc- curring at some location in CAISO over 30 of all time steps in 2021, and over 60 of all times in ERCOT and SPP. The frequent occurrence of curtailment means that there is opportunity for greater emissions reductions through careful load management. Historically, dispatchable fossil resources were matched to electricity demand from consumers. We now have the opportunity to reverse that paradigm and match demand to variable renewable energy supply to sop up the excess clean energy. Flexible loads, like electric vehicle charging, hot water heating with heat pumps, and delay-tolerant computation in datacenters 1, 11, 14 can be scheduled to take advantage of this low emissions electricity. For example, managed EV charging can reduce associated emissions by up to 65 4 . But to take advantage of this curtailed renewable energy, we need to accurately predict when and where curtailment occurs a challenging problem due to the intermittent nature of renewable energy production. Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning: workshop at NeurIPS 2023.arXiv:2405.18526v1 eess.SY 28 May 2024 2 ML for Curtailment Prediction Understanding when and where renewable energy curtailment occurs provides a massive opportunity for emissions reductions. When renewable energy is oversupplied, or is constrained by transmission capacities, it is curtailed. If users could increase load at the times and near places where curtailment occurs, electricity usage is increased without the associated emission overhead, having near-zero marginal emissions during that time. For example, managed EV charging can reduce associated emissions by up to 65 4 . In addition to lowering carbon emissions, reducing curtailment increases revenues for renewable energy owners and reduces the overall system costs for grid consumers. As renewable development continues, the opportunity to reduce emissions through load flexibility will increase in magnitude, frequency and location. Temporal and spatial granularity of the models are crucial to detect andforecast the curtailments accurately. Temporal Granularity: Curtailment can vary significantly from one 5-minute settlement period of the Independent System Operators (ISO)1. See Appendix Figure 3 for an example five minute-level time series and Figure 4 for an example of seasonal trends. This means that a successful curtailment prediction model needs to operate at a granularity finer than hourly. Spatial Granularity: While curtailment can be a widespread phenomenon, it is most frequently localized to a subsection of the ISO grid due to transmission constraints. This means that the geographic granularity needs to be smaller than at the ISO level. Fortunately, there is a growing resource of ground-truth data about curtailment available now. Many ISOs publish ground truth curtailment data with varying time delays, typically 30 to 90 days, although some may be as soon as a day or up to a year delay. The data can have different levels of spatial granularity. Table 1 summarizes the characteristics of the ISO-specific datasets. Unfortunately not all ISOs provide nodal level granularity. However we propose using locational marginal pricing (LMP) data to serve as a replacement for granular ground truth data. 2.1 Detecting Curtailment Using Nodal Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP) Data While detailed information of where curtailed energy is not always available, many ISOs provide detailed nodal locational marginal pricing (LMP) data realtime. Not all markets globally use nodal LMP for dispatch, however all major ISOs in the US have moved to a nodal LMP structure. Since the majority of curtailment in current markets is driven by economic dispatch, LMP provides useful information about where curtailment is addressable. Renewable generators typically bid at zero or negative prices, so it is reasonable to assume that when nodal LMP crosses below a certain threshold, renewable energy is being curtailed or dispatched to meet marginal changes in demand. Figure 2-left depicts curtailment frequency as a function of the minimum LMP for CAISO, showing a 50 curtailment likelihood at an LMP of 1.62. The curtailment threshold may be ISO and condition dependent. Figure 2-right illustrates the significantly varying curtailment that occurs in various sub-regions of SPP based on the LMP threshold. This underscores the importance of curtailment prediction at the node granularity. In some ISOs, such as MISO, negative LMP values can be driven by imports or other types of transmission constraints, which are not related to curtailment. Since curtailment is a localized phenomenon, it is important that forecasts of curtailment also be localized.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Contingency Identiﬁcation of Cascading Failures in Power Transmission Networks Chao Zhai, Hehong Zhang, Gaoxi Xiao and Tso-Chien Pan December 20, 2024 Abstract Due to the evolving nature of power systems and the complicated coupling relationship of power devices, it has been a great challenge to identify the contingencies that could trigger cascading black- outs of power systems. This paper provides an effective approach to identifying the initial contin- gency in power transmission networks, which are equipped with ﬂexible alternating current trans- mission system (FACTS) devices, high-voltage direct current (HVDC) links and protective relays. Essentially, the problem of contingency identiﬁcation is formulated in the framework of nonlinear programming, which can be solved by the Jacobian-Free Newton-Krylov (JFNK) method to cir- cumvent Jacobian matrix and reduce the computational cost. Notably, the proposed identiﬁcation approach is also applied to complicated cascading failure models of power systems. Finally, numer- ical simulations are carried out to validate the proposed identiﬁcation approach on IEEE 118 Bus Systems. The proposed approach succeeds in reconciling the rigorous optimization formulation with the practical modeling of cascading blackouts. Keywords: Cascading failures, contingency identiﬁcation, power transmission networks, nonlinear programming 1 Introduction The past decades have witnessed several large blackouts in the world such as India Blackout (2012), US-Canada Blackout (2003), Italy Blackout (2003) and Southern Brazil Blackout (1999) to name just Chao Zhai, Hehong Zhang, Gaoxi Xiao and Tso-Chien Pan are with Institute of Catastrophe Risk Management, Nanyang Technological University, 50 Nanyang Avenue, Singapore 639798. They are also with Future Resilient Systems, Singapore- ETH Centre, 1 Create Way, CREATE Tower, Singapore 138602. Chao Zhai, Hehong Zhang and Gaoxi Xiao are also with School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University. Corresponding author: Gaoxi Xiao. Email: egxxiao ntu.edu.sg 1arXiv:1901.05311v1 eess.SY 15 Jan 2019 a few, which have left millions of residents without power supply and caused huge ﬁnancial losses 1 . In such catastrophe events, the initial contingencies ( e:g:extreme weather, terrorist attack and operator error) play a crucial role in triggering the cascading outage of power systems. It is reported that the mal- operation of a protection relay is the key trigger of the ﬁnal line outage sequence in most blackouts 2 . For instance, conventional relays may lead to unselective tripping under high load conditions, which could initiate the chain reaction of branch outages under certain conditions (e.g., a wrong relay operation of Sammis-Star line in the 2003 US-Canada Blackout 2 ). The reliability and resilience of power grids are closely related to the proactive elimination of disruptive initial contingencies. Thus, it is vital to identify the initial contingency that causes the most severe blackouts and work out remedial schemes against cascading blackouts in advance. In practice, electrical power devices such as FACTS devices, HVDC links and protective relays serve as the major protective barrier against cascading blackouts. To be speciﬁc, FACTS devices signiﬁcantly contribute to the stability improvement of power systems, while HVDC links behave like a ﬁrewall to prevent the propagation of cascading outages. Actually, the FACTS devices have been widely in- stalled in power transmission networks to improve the capability of power transmission, controllability of power ﬂow, damping of power oscillation and post-contingency stability. As a series FACTS de- vice, the thyristor-controlled series capacitor (TCSC) allows fast and continuous adjustments of branch impedance in order to control the power ﬂow and improve the transient stability 3 . In addition, the HVDC links assist in preventing cascades propagation and restoring the power ﬂow after faults. For example, Qu ebec power system in Canada survived the cascades in the 2003 US-Canada Blackout due to its DC interconnection to the US power systems 2 . As the most common protection device, protective relays of power system react passively to the system oscillation and promptly remove the overloading elements without affecting the normal operation of the rest of the system. Meanwhile it allows for time delay of abnormal oscillations to neglect the trivial disturbances and avoid the overreaction to the tran- sient state changes 4 . It is necessary to take into account the protection mechanism of the above power devices for the practical cascading dynamics of power systems. Owing to simplicity, efﬁciency and scalability in the simulation, the DC power ﬂow model has been widely adopted to investigate cascading failures of power systems 5, 6 . It is demonstrated that the DC power ﬂow model is able to assess the vulnerability of power grids and reveal informative details of cascading failure process, including the size, contributing factors and the duration of cascading failures 6 . Additionally, the model predictive control can be applied to mitigate the cascading effect of severe line-overload disturbances in power systems 5 . Actually, the DC power ﬂow model is usually regarded as a good substitute for the AC based model in high voltage power transmission networks 7, 8 . As 2 a result, the DC power ﬂow equation is employed in this work to compute the transmission power on branches of power transmission networks. So far, cascading blackouts of power systems have been investigated through two distinct routes. Speciﬁcally, some researchers aim at the strict mathematical formulation for the exploration of vulnerable elements in power systems regardless of the transient response and protection mechanisms 5, 9 , while others focus on the practical physical process and accurate modeling of cascading blackouts 4, 6 . While the former may fail to reﬂect the real physical characteristic of cascading failures, the latter is in lack of a rigorous theoretical framework. This work attempts to ﬁll the gap between the practical modeling of cascading blackouts and the strict mathematical formulation by properly decoupling the optimization problem and cascading dynamics of power grids. The main contributions of this paper are listed as follows 1. Propose the cascading dynamics of power transmission networks equipped with FACTS devices, HVDC links and protective relays. 2. Formulate the problem of contingency identiﬁcation with nonlinear programming and solve it via the efﬁcient numerical method. 3. Validate the proposed approach on the large-scale power
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Global Optimal Power Flow over Large-Scale Power Transmission NetworksI Y. Shia, H. D. Tuana, P. Apkarianb, A. V. Savkinc aSchool of Electrical and Data Engineering, University of Technology, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia bCERT-ONERA, Control System Department, 2, avenua Edouard Belin, 31055 Toulouse, France cSchool of Electrical Engineering and Telecommunications, the University of New South Wales, NSW 2052, Australia Abstract Optimal power ow (OPF) over power transmission networks poses challenging large-scale nonlinear optimization prob- lems, which involve a large number of quadratic equality and inde nite quadratic inequality constraints. These compu- tationally intractable constraints are often expressed by linear constraints plus matrix additional rank-one constraints on the outer products of the voltage vectors. The existing convex relaxation technique, which drops the di cult rank-one constraints for tractable computation, cannot yield even a feasible point. We address these computationally di cult problems by an iterative procedure, which generates a sequence of improved points that converge to a rank-one solution. Each iteration calls a semi-de nite program. Intensive simulations for the OPF problems over networks with a few thousands of buses are provided to demonstrate the e ciency of our approach. The suboptimal values of the OPF problems found by our computational procedure turn out to be the global optimal value with computational tolerance less than 0.01 . Keywords: Optimal power ow (OPF) problem; large-scale transmission networks; rank-one matrix constraint; nonsmooth optimization; semi-de nite programming (SDP). 1. Introduction Smart grids are operated by the advanced distribu- tion management system (DMS), which is responsible for supervisory control and data acquisition in reactive dis- patch, voltage regulation, contingency analysis, capability maximization and other smart operations. The optimal power ow (OPF) problem, which determines a steady state operating point that minimizes the cost of electric power generation or the transmission loss is the back- bone of DMS (see e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4 and references therein). Mathematically, the OPF problem is highly nonlinear and nonconvex due to numerous quadratic equality and indef- inite quadratic inequality constraints for bus interconnec- tions, hardware operating capacity and the balance be- tween power demand and supply. These nonlinear con- straints are mathematically troublesome so the state-of- the-art nonlinear optimization solvers may converge to just stationary points (see 5 and references therein), which are not necessarily feasible. To handle these nonlinear constraints, it is common to reformulate them as linear constraints on the outer product W VVHof the volt- age vector V (V1;V2;:::;Vn)T2Cn. As a result, the OPF problem is recast by a semi-de nite program (SDP) ICorresponding author H.D. Tuan. Tel. 61.02.9405 9435. Fax 61.02.9405 9039 Email addresses: ye.shi student.uts.edu.au (Y. Shi), tuan.hoang uts.edu.au (H. D. Tuan), Pierre.Apkarian onera.fr (P. Apkarian), a.savkin unsw.edu.au (A. V. Savkin)plus the additional rank-one constraint on outer product matrixW 6, 7 . The rank-one constraint is then dropped for semi-de nite relaxation (SDR). However, the optimal solution of SDR is of rank-more-than-one in general and cannot help retrieval of a feasible point or stationary point of the OPF problem 7, 8, 9 . In 10 , we have extended the technique of 11 for solving the beamforming optimiza- tion problems in signal processing to optimize the outer product matrix W, which works very well and is practi- cal for moderate-scale power distribution networks up to n 300 buses. There is another approach (see e.g. 12 and references therein), which is based on hierarchies of moment-based relaxation for nonconvex quadratic prob- lems to tackle large networks with simple nonconvex con- straints. Power transmission networks in modern smart grids are of- ten devised with a few thousand buses 13, 14, 15 . Under a such large number nof buses it is impossible to use the sin- gle matrixW2Cn n, which involves n(n 1) 2 O(107) complex variables. On the other hand, the number of the ow lines for bus connection is relatively moderate so only a small portion of the crossed nonlinear terms VkV map- pears in the nonlinear constraints. The common approach is to use the outer products of overlapped groups of the voltage variables to cover them 16, 17, 9 . All rank-one constraints on these outer products are then dropped for SDR. Obviously, the optimal solution of this SDR usu- ally is not of rank-one and thus does not have any phys- ical meaning. There is no technique to retrieve a feasi- Preprint submitted to Journal of System Control Letters March 1, 2022arXiv:1802.04456v1 cs.SY 13 Feb 2018 ble rank-one point from the rank-more-than-one solution of SDR.1Multiple matrix rank constrained optimization has received a great attention due to its potential appli- cation in robust control synthesis 19, 20 but to our best knowledge there is no e ective computation so far. The contribution of this paper is two-fold: An e ective decomposition for large-scale OPF prob- lems, which involves essentially reduced numbers of the rank-one constraints on matrices of moderate size for expressing the network nonlinear constraints; A new iterative procedure for rank-one constrained optimization, which is practical for computational solutions of large-scale inde nite quadratic program- ming. Simulations for the large-scale OPF problems show that it is capable of nding the global optimal solution with the computational tolerance less than 0:01 . The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 is devoted to the OPF problem formulation and its di culties. Its computational solution is developed in Section 3. Section 4 provides simulation to show the e ciency of our method. The conclusions are drawn in Section 5. Notation.jdenotes the imaginary unit; M 0 means thatMis a Hermitian symmetric positive semi-de nite matrix; rank(M) is the rank of the matrix M; ( ) and ( ) denote the real and imaginary parts of a complex quantity; a bfor two complex numbers aandbis componentwise understood, i.e. (a) (b) and (a) (b);h:;:iis the dot product of matrices, while diagfAigdenotes the matrix with diagonal blocks Aiand zero o -diagonal blocks; the cardinality of a set Lis denoted byjLj. 2. Optimal power ow problem and challenges Consider an AC electricity transmission network with a set ofnbusesN: f1;2; ;ng.
__label__energy	Littletolose: thecaseforarobustEuropeangreenhydrogenstrategy KoenvanGreevenbroek 1,JohannesSchmidt2,MarianneZeyringer3,andAlexanderHorsch1 1Department of Computer Science, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, Postboks 6050 Langnes, 9037 Tromsø, Norway 2Institute for Sustainable Economic Development, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Feistmantelstraße 4, 1180 Vienna, Austria 3Department of Technology Systems, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 70, 2027 Kjeller, Norway 11thDecember2024 TheEUtargets10Mtofgreenhydrogenproductionby2030,buthasnotcommittedto targetsfor2040. Greenhydrogencompeteswithcarboncaptureandstorage,biomass andimportsinreachingemissionsreductions;earlierstudieshavedemonstratedthe greatuncertaintyinfuturecost-optimaldevelopmentofgreenhydrogen. Inspiteof this,weshowthatEuroperiskslittlebysettinggreenhydrogenproductiontargetsat around25Mtby2040. Employinganextensivescenarioanalysiscombinedwithnovel near-optimaltechniques,wefindthatthistargetresultsinsystemsthatarewithin10 ofcost-optimalinmostconsideredscenarios. Settingconcretetargetsisimportantin ordertoresolvesignificantuncertaintywhichhampersinvestments. Targetinggreen hydrogenreducesthedependenceoncarboncaptureandstorageandgreenfuelimports, makingforamorerobustEuropeanclimatestrategy. AsEuropeundergoesthetransitiontonet-zeroemissions by 2050, hydrogen is seen as a key technology enabling a shiftawayfromfossilfuels. TheEuropeanUnionhasseta target of 10 Mt agreen hydrogen production and imports each by 20301. Beyond 2030, however, targets for scaling upgreenhydrogenaremissingevenastheEUhasproposed a 90 emissions reduction by 20402and committed to net zeroemissionsby2050bylaw3. Thisischaracteristicofthe fundamentaluncertaintyaroundthefutureroleofgreenhy- drogenproductioninEurope. Inthisstudy,wepresentthe caseforcommittingtoEuropeangreenhydrogentargetsdes- pitethisuncertainty,whilekeepingtheriskofcostoverruns andmissingclimatetargetslow. Innet-zeroenergysystems,greenhydrogenisexpectedto serveprimarilyasafeedstockforsyntheticfuelproduction,as afuelinthetransportationsectorandasafeedstockandheat source in industry4 6. In these roles, green hydrogen com- peteswithfossilfuelscombinedwithcarboncaptureandstor- age(CCS)7,greenfuelimports8aswellasbiomass9,10. While estimatesofbiomassavailabilityby2050vary11,12,moststud- iesinaEuropeancontextuseconservativevaluesofaround 1200TWhsolidbiomassavailableperyear13,whichiscloseto currentvalues14. DevelopmentofCSSandgreenfuelimports, however,issubjecttomuchgreateruncertainty. Green fuel imports(here: carbon-neutral hydrogen, am- monia,methanol,syntheticgasandoilimports)havethepo- tentialforreducingtotalsystemcosts8,15,butglobalmarkets arecurrentlyvirtuallynon-existentandsupplyisexpectedto stayscarcefortheforeseeablefuture16. Moreover,acontin- uedrelianceonenergyimportscouldnegatetheresilienceto supplyshocksthatEuropeandecarbonisationpromises17,18. TheprospectsforfossilfuelsandCCStowards2050arecon- tentious. WhiletheEUhascommittedtoatargetof 50 Mt a Correspondingauthor, koen.v.greevenbroek uit.noofCO2sequestration(permanentgeologicalstorage)by2030 throughtheNetZeroIndustryAct19,thereiswidedisagree- ment among energy systems studies on how this number might scale up in the coming decades (Fig. 1). Apart from technologicalchallengesinscalingupCCS20,thispathway also relies on the continued, unsustainable use of deplet- ing fossil fuel reserves as well as a finite CO 2storage capa- city21. Thesefactors,amongothers22,conspiretoproduce widerangesofprojected(optimal)greenhydrogenproduc- tionlevelsinEuropeby2050(Table1). Net-zeroenergysystemsentirelywithoutgreenhydrogen production can be feasible and even cost-optimal in some scenarios4,10, but only with 1000 1400 Mtof CO2sequest- ration per year (Fig. 1). Especially synthetic fuel produc- tionfromgreenhydrogenisout-competedbyfossilfuelsun- der liberal assumptions on CO 2sequestration potential28. The European Environmental Agency, meanwhile, uses a 500 Mt a feasibility threshold in an impact assessment for the2040climatetarget29. Despitedoubtsaroundtheprofitabilityofgreenhydrogen towards2050,itmaynonethelessbeadvantageoustosetcon- cretetargetsforscalingupitsproduction. Ifgreenhydrogen does not take off, Europe s climate targets hinge solely on avastexpansionofCSScapacityand orgreenfuelimports. Thus, scalingupgreenhydrogenproductioncanmakethe transitiontonet-zeroemissionsmorerobustagainsttechno- logicaluncertaintyandexternalshocks. Moreover,clearlyar- ticulatedvisionsforafutureenergysystemaretobepreferred intransitions30,reducingfutureuncertaintyandrecognising path-dependenciesandlearning-by-doing24. Weshowthatwiderangesofgreenhydrogenproduction are possible when relaxing cost-optimality slightly. Across asystematic,large-scalescenarioexploration,wefindthat allowinga5 increaseintotalenergysystemcostsopensup 1arXiv:2412.07464v1 eess.SY 10 Dec 2024 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 Green hydrogen production in 2050 Mt a 0200400600800100012001400CO2 sequestration potential Mt a 10 5 2 opta) a) b)c) d)e)f) f) g)h) i)This study a) Blanco et al. (2018) b) Pickering et al. (2022) c) Seck et al. (2022) d) Neumann et al. (2023) e) Zeyen et al. (2023) f) Béres et al. (2024) g) Schreyer et al. (2024) h) Kountouris et al. (2024) i) Fleiter et al. (2024)Figure1: Rangesofgreenhydrogenproductionin2050foundinpreviousstudies,plottedagainsttheCO 2sequestrationlimitimposed byeachstudy. Blancoetal.andBéresetal.containdifferentscenarioswithdifferentCO 2sequestrationpotentialswhichareplotted here with seperate line segments. In the background, the ranges found in the present study; in particular, the overall minimum and maximumgreenhydrogenproductionlevelsfoundacrossallscenariosatthethreedifferentCO 2sequestrationpotentialsconsidered (275 Mt,550 Mtand1100 Mt). Theresultsarefurthersplitupbetweencost-optimal( opt )andnear-optimalat2 ,5 and10 slack levels. Whilewereportquantitiesofhydrogeninmillionsoftonnes(Mt),thiscanbeconvertedtoenergycontentusingthelowerheating valueof 33.3 kW kgH2,suchthat 1 Mt 33 .3 TWhforhydrogenand 1000 TWh 30 Mt . Ref. GreenH 2 prod. Mt a Model Comment Blancoetal.100 120 JRC-EU-TIMES 95 emissionsreduction. Nogreenhydrogenproductionin scenarioswithunrestrictedCO 2sequestration(amountingto 1400Mt a);90 120Mt ainscenarioswithnoCO 2sequestra- tion. Pickeringetal.2376 157 Sector-coupled version of euro-calliopeModel without CO 2sequestration and fossil fuels; range is over441differentnear-optimalsolutionsatmost10 more expensivethancost-optimalsolution. Secketal.538 78Soft-linkingofMIRET-EU IntegrateEuropeMostofthegreenhydrogenproductionat offgrid sites(i.e. used at the site of production), reducing distribution costs. Tightupperlimitof1400Mt aonCO 2sequestration. Neumannetal.669 80 PyPSA-Eur Tightupperlimitof200Mt aonCO 2sequestration. Zeyenetal.24114 119 PyPSA-Eur Tight upper limit of 200 Mt a on CO 2sequestration; endo- genouslymodelledtechnologicallearningforrenewablesand electrolysisleadstoanincreaseingreenhydrogenproduction. Inadditionalanalysisusinga2000Mt alimitonCO 2sequest- ration,greenhydrogenproductiondropsto 20Mt a. Béresetal.417 76Soft-linking of JRC-EU- TIMESandPLEXOSUpperlimitof300 1000Mt aonCO 2sequestrationdepending onthescenario;assumes50 oftotalhydrogendemandmust bemetbyimports. Schreyeretal.258 76 REMIND Upper limit of 270 Mt a on CO 2sequestration. Low green hydrogen production in this study is countered with zero- emissionsenergyimportsofupto1400TWh a. Kountourisetal.2630 51 Balmorel CO2sequestration not limited but peaks around 250 Mt a in2050;greenhydrogenimportsofuptoabout200TWh a. Hydrogendemandlargelydeterminedexogenously;littlecom- petitionbetweenhydrogenandfossilfuels. Fleiteretal.2720 78 Enertile CO2sequestrationlimitedtocementproductionprocessemis- sions;thelowergreenhydrogenproductionscenariosrelyon synthetic(green)fuelimportsofupto 1600 TWh . Table 1: Literature review of projections for European green hydrogen production by 2050, ordered by publication date. Results are compatiblewithanet-zeroemissionstargetunlessotherwiseisindicated. Onlystudiesincludingallmajorenergyproductionanddemand sectors(electricity,heat,transportation,industry)areincluded. Differencesinprojectionsareduetoavarietyoffactors;mostnotably differingassumptionsregardingCO 2sequestrationpotential,energyimportsand,toalesserextent,biomassavailability. Otherfactors includecostassumptionsandmodellingmethodology. 2 a difference of 38 Mt abetween minimum and maximum feasiblegreenhydrogenproductionin2050onaverage. Cru- cially,amoderatetargetsuchasatotalyearlyproductionof 25 Mtby 2040 is found to be feasible and near-optimal (no morethan5 10 moreexpensivethancost-optimal)across allconsideredscenarios. Thus,notonlywouldthesetargets securetheenergytransitionagainstavarietyofuncertainties and shocks: they are highly unlikely to lead to severe cost overruns. Europe has little to lose by committing to such targets. Greenhydrogendevelopmentistieddirectlytothefuture of fossil fuels as well as renewable electricity, representing either a competitor or an opportunity for different interest groups. Cost-optimalmodellingresultswitha centralplan- ning approachmaynotcapturesystemdesignsthatarepolit- icallymoreviablebutslightlymorecostly31,motivatingour focusonnear-optimalmethods,alsoknowsas Modelling to Generate Alternatives (MGA)32. Withsuchmethods,itisalso possibletogenerateoptionsthatarefeasibleandnear-optimal acrossanumberofscenarios33. Up to this moment, however, near-optimal methods have only been developed for single-horizon optimisa- tions12,23,32,34 36or multi-horizon optimisations with per- fect foresight over the planning horizon37. We therefore extend the state of the art by developing for the first time near-optimalmethodsinthecontextofmulti-horizonoptim- isations with myopic planning foresight. This allows us to studythetemporaldynamicsoftheenergytransitionwhile limitingcomputationalcomplexityandrunningtheunder- laying energy system model at high temporal and spatial resolution. Ourapplicationofnewmulti-horizonnear-optimaltech- niquesallowsusforthefirsttimetoinvestigaterobustpath- ways of European green hydrogen production; a first step on the way to a robust production target for 2040 and bey- ond. Neumannet.al.35andPickeringet.al.23employnear- optimalmethodstogeneratelargenumbersofsolutions,but do not consider green hydrogen production explicitly as a variableofinterest,onlyconsidera2050planninghorizon, andonlyconsiderCO 2sequestrationpotentialsof 200 Mt a and0 Mt a, respectively. Other research on European hy- drogenproductiontowards2050considersonlycost-optimal pathways,thusunderestimatingthetruerangesofviablepro- ductionlevels. Ourstudyalsorepresentsthemostsystematic andextensivescenarioanalysisonthequestionofEuropean greenhydrogentodate. Weobtainresultsoverallpossible combinationsofdifferentassumptionsacrosscategoriesrep- resenting CCS potential, biomass availability, presence of imports, electrolysis costs and weather year. Resulting in a total of 72 scenarios, we can show exactly which factors arethemostsignificantforthefutureofgreenhydrogenin Europe. Mappingoutgreenhydrogenproductionpath- ways Thesubsequentresultsarebasedonalargenumberofenergy systemmodeloptimisationscoveringtheperiodof2025 2050 in5-yearsteps;ourmodellingregionincludesmostoftheEU inadditiontotheUK,Switzerland,NorwayandmostBalkan countries. Amodel-widecaponCO 2emissionsisgradually tightenedinlinewithEUtargets: 55 ,90 and100 reduc- tionsby2030,2040and2050,respectively. Inordertofullycapture the potential roles played by hydrogen, the model (based on PyPSA-Eur38,39) includes representations of the electricity,gas,heating,transportationandindustrysectors, andisrunathighspatialandtemporalresolution(Methods). Green hydrogen production is minimised and maximised subjecttototalsystemcostincreaselimitsof 2 ,5 and10 ateachtimehorizonandforeachscenarioseparately(Fig.2). We repeat the optimisations for a total of 72 scenarios, representingallpossiblecombinationsofdifferentlevelsin fivesettings: 1. CCSpotential: (a),(b),(c). 2. Biomasspotential: (a),(b),(c). 3. Greenfuelimportpotential: (a),(b). 4. Electrolysercapitalcost: (a),(b). 5. Weatheryear: (a),(b). Thedetailsofthescenarioassumptionscanbefoundinthe Methodssection;foreachsettingourassumptionsrangefrom pessimistic(a)tooptimistic(borc). TheCCSpotentialset- tingconsistsofacombinationofsequestrationpotential,mar- ginalcostofsequestrationandcapitalcostofcarboncapture infrastructure. BiomasspotentialsarederivedfromtheENS- PRESSOdatabase13. Greenfuelimportsareeitherlimitedin volumetolessthandomesticgreenhydrogenproduction,or unlimited. Largedifferencesintheimportanceofgreen hydrogenfor2040climatetarget Different scenarios lead to a large variety of cost-optimal green hydrogen production pathways, reaching anywhere between0and 43 Mt aalreadyby2040(Fig.3). Sensitivities toindividualscenariosettingsareexploredinTable2. Allow- ingforjusta2 totalsystemcostincrease,therangewidens significantly,withdifferentscenariosleadingtoamaximum levelofgreenhydrogenproductionof5 59 Mt a. Ata10 totalsystemcostslack,theupperendoftherangeextendsto 100 Mt a insomescenarios. In most scenarios, green hydrogen production peaks alreadyin2040,largelydrivenbyastrongdemandforsyn- theticfuelsinthelandtransportationsector. Thissynthetic fueldemandisinturninducedbytheEU stargetofa90 emissionsreductionby2040,whileasignificantnumberof internalcombustionenginecarsarestillexpectedtobeop- erationalin2040(Methods). Thelandtransportationsector is still expected to dominate demand for oil in 2040, only ceding to aviation by 2050 (Supplementary Fig. S3). Sup- portingsyntheticfuelproduction,weseemassivebuild-out ofsolarandwindpower, withmedianinstalledsolarcapa-
__label__energy	Circuit Solutions towards Broadband Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting: An Impedance Analysis Bao Zhaoa,b, , Junrui Lianga, aSchool of Information Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, China bDepartment of Civil, Environmental, and Geomatic Engineering, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland Abstract In the studies of piezoelectric energy harvesting (PEH) systems, literature has shown that circuit advancement has a signi cant e ect on the enhancement of energy harvesting capability in resonance. On the other hand, some recent studies using the phase-variable (PV) synchronized switch technologies have found that the advanced circuit solutions can also broaden the harvesting bandwidth, i.e., improving the o -resonance energy harvesting capability, to some extent. However, the available span of the electrically induced dynamics by the existing energy harvesting circuits was not properly de ned and demonstrated. Performance comparison among di erent circuits cannot be fairly achieved without using a common theoretical language. Given these, this paper provides an impedance-based analysis and comparison on the electromechanical joint dynamics of the PEH systems using di erent interface circuits, in particular, with a speci c focus on their contributions towards the improvement of energy harvesting bandwidth. Given that the resonance tunability by circuit solutions has received no attention in the conventional ideal model of kinetic energy harvester, we rstly propose a more inclusive ideal model for better generalization. In practice, it was proven that the attainable dynamic ranges of the practical energy harvesting circuits are only some subsets of the ideal realm. A detailed quantitative study on the attainable ranges of the PV synchronized switch circuit solutions is provided after the introduction of the ideal target. Simulation and experimental results of di erent interface circuits show good agreement with the theoretical analysis. It can be concluded that the resonance tunability strongly depends on the achievable extent in the reactive (imaginary) direction of the equivalent impedance plane. In practice, the electromechanical coupling conditions and dielectric loss might also in uence the resonance tunability. The general ideal model and quantitative impedance analysis provided in this paper help guide the future design e ort towards high-capability and broadband PEH systems. Keywords: Piezoelectric energy harvesting, broadband, interface circuit, synchronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI), equivalent impedance 1. Introduction In recent years, the kinetic energy harvesting (KEH) systems have caught more research interests, with the pur- This article was presented in part at the 2018 SPIE Smart Struc- tures Nondestructive Evaluation Conference 1 . Corresponding author: bao.zhao ibk.baug.ethz.ch (Bao Zhao); liangjr shanghaitech.edu.cn (Junrui Liang)pose of enabling some highly distributed Internet of Things (IoT) devices, which operate in vibrational environments, to become energy self-su cient. No matter what mechan- ical design, transducer, or power conditioning circuit are used, there are two most signi cant design targets for the KEH systems. Preprint November 1, 2022arXiv:2210.17407v1 eess.SY 31 Oct 2022 1.The high-capability (HC) target : to increase the har- vested power in resonance. 2.The broadband (BB) target : to increase the o - resonance harvested power, i.e., to broaden the har- vesting bandwidth. For the KEH systems using piezoelectric transducers, i.e., piezoelectric energy harvesting (PEH) systems, many me- chanical or electrical solutions were proposed regarding to the aforementioned two design targets. For the HC design target, the mechanical solutions in- clude: to increase the amount of active materials, e.g., using a bimorph instead of a unimorph for energy har- vesting 2 ; or to decrease the equivalent mechanical sti - ness, e.g., applying an axial load to the piezoelectric beam 3, 4, 5 . All mechanical solutions have led to the increase of the system electromechanical coupling coe cient. On the other hand, without changing the mechanical struc- ture, it was shown that the harvesting capability could be e ectively enhanced by advancing the interface circuit designs 6, 7 . The featured interface circuits include the synchronous electric charge extraction (SECE) 8 , syn- chronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI) 9 , single- supply pre-biasing (SSPB) 10 , and synchronized triple bias- ip (S3BF) 11 . Shu et al. have intuitively put that, by using the synchronized switch interface circuits, a weakly coupled PEH system might become a moderately or strongly coupled system 12 . For the BB design target, most research e orts came from the mechanical community. The major mechan- ical solutions include: combining multiple vibrators at di erent resonant frequencies 13 ; tuning the vibration modes by adding auxiliary structures 14 ; and introduc- ing the nonlinear mechanical dynamics to the linear vibra- tor 15, 16, 17 . Considering a PEH system as an organic electromechanical system, each part of the system should have some e ect on the global dynamic characteristics. In this sense, the circuit solutions should also play a role in the system dynamics. However, given the major attentionon the HC target for weakly coupled systems, few circuit studies realized the BB target until recent years 18 . The dynamic contribution of an interface circuit comes from the inverse piezoelectric e ect. Therefore, the dynamic in- tervention can be more obviously observed under strong coupling 19, 20 . Without a strong coupling system, the connected interface circuit has little to do with the me- chanical vibration. By modifying the synchronized switch instants in SSHI, which tunes the weakly coupled systems into strongly coupled ones, Hsieh et al. have proposed the phase-variable (PV) SSHI towards the BB target 21 . A similar idea was also presented in a US Patent led by Li et al. 22 . Lefeuvre et al. have introduced the PV control to the SECE interface circuit for the same BB purpose 23, 24 . Zhao et al. also utilized the PV control in the P-S3BF interface circuit for the BB target in a nonlinear energy harvesting system 25 . These technologies are re- ferred to as PV-SSHI, PV-SECE , and PV-P-S3BF in the following part of this paper. Besides the phase-variable control, Brenes et al. 26 and Morel et al. 27 also in- clude additional tunable parameters such as synchronized switch duration from frequency tuning (FT) SECE 26 and short circuit
__label__energy	1 Energy and environmental impacts of air -to-air heat pumps in a mid- latitude city David Meyer1, (ORCID: 0000 -0002 -7071 -7547 ) Robert Schoetter2 (ORCID: 0000 -0002 -2284 -4592) Maarten van Reeuwijk1 (ORCID: 0000 -0003 -4840 -5050 ) 1Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London, London, UK 2CNRM, Université de Toulouse, Météo -France, CNRS, Toulouse, Franc e Correspondence to David Meye r (email: d.meyer imperial.ac.uk ) Abstrac t Heat pumps ( HPs) have emerged as a key technology for reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. This study evaluates the potential switch to air-to-air HPs (AAHPs) in Toulouse, France, where conventional space heating is split between electric and gas sources . In this context, we find that AAHPs reduce heating energy consumption by 57 to 76 , with electric heating energy consumption decreasing by 6 to 47 , resulting in virtually no local heating -related CO 2 emissions. We observe a slight reduction in near -surface air temperature of up to 0.5 C during cold spells , attributable to a reduction in sensible heat flux , which is unlikely to compromise AAHPs operational efficiency. While Toulouse s heating energy mix facilitates large energy savings, electric energy consumption may increase in cities where gas or other fossil fuel sources prevail . Furthermore, as AAHP s efficiency varies with internal and external conditions, their impact on the electrical grid is more complex than conventional heating systems . The results underscore the importance of matching heating system transitions with sustainable electricity generation to maximize environmental benefits. The study highlights the intricate balance between technological advancements in heating and their broa der environmental and policy implications, offering key insights for urban energy policy and sustainability efforts. 2 Introduction In 2021, residential space heating accounted for 17 of the final energy consumption in the European Union s group of 271 and 11 globally across the International Energy Agency s group of 61 countries, contributing to 8 of total carbon -dioxide (CO 2) emissions2. Heat pumps (HPs) represent a critical technological shift towards high -efficiency, electrically driven heating systems, offering a sustainable alternative to fossil -fuel-based systems3 5. While previous research has underscored the potential of HPs in reducing buildings energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions6,7, the ir effectiveness is contingent upon the system type , operational practices, and electricity generation sources7 9. Previous analyses have leveraged a range of statistical, empirical, and numerical models to assess HPs impacts on energy consumption and CO 2 emissions under various conditions6,10 15. Notably, ref.6 show that in 53 out of 59 regions, HPs are less carbon -intensive compared to fossil -fuel alternatives, even under current electricity generation carbon intensities. This underscores the potential for HPs for reducing emissions, particularl y in France, where the extensive use of nuclear power minimises their environmental impact . Conversely, ref.10 illustrate a counterintuitive scenario in the United States, where switching to electric HPs could increase both heating costs and CO 2 emissions due to the predominant use of fossil fuels in electricity generation . This h ighlight s that the environmental benefits of H Ps are heavily dependent on the local energy mix . Similarly, ref.11 provide empirical evidence from Arizona, challenging the assumption of universal energy savings from HP adoption. Their findings reveal no notable electricity savings during su mmer and an increased electricity demand in winter. Finally, ref.15 explore the retrofitting of a UK dwelling with air -to-water HPs (AWHPs) , noting a 12 reduction in CO 2 emission s but with a 10 increase in operational costs. Collectively, these studies underline the importance of considering regional energy sources and climate conditions in assessing HPs environmental and economic impacts. Physically, HPs move thermal energy from a cold location (e.g., outdoor air) to a warmer one16 (e.g., indoor air) . Depending on where the energy is sourced or released (e.g., in air, ground, or water) several HP types exist3. Air -to-air heat pumps (AAHPs; Supplementary Fig. 1) are the predominant type globally17,18, meriting focused investigation into their performance and environmental impact. In simulating their behaviour , two variables are of main interest : capacity ( 𝑄capacity ), i.e., the amount of thermal energy (𝑄heat) that an AAHP can provide at a given time of operation , and, work ( 𝑊), i.e., the amount of electric energy used to drive the system at a given time of operation. The ratio of thermal energy moved into the building to that of electric energy used to drive the compressor defines the coefficient of performance (COP, i.e., COP 𝑄heat 𝑊) a common metric to rate an AAHP s efficiency. Here, we show through an integrated modelling approach, combining heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) models with building energy models (BEMs), urban canopy models (UCMs), and numerical weather prediction (NWP) models (e.g. ref.19 22), the potential impact of AAHPs on energy consumption, urban climate dynamics, and CO 2 emissions in Toulouse, France. Similarly to previous meteorological studies investigating air conditioners effects23 29, and by assessing the COP in real -world scenarios, we contribute to the understanding of AAHP efficiency in diverse environmental settings offering insights into their transient behaviour under varying building and meteorological conditions . Through this detailed investigation, our research highlights the broader implications of AAHP deployment on electricity consumption and environmental sustainability, contribut ing comprehensive insights and offering a framewo rk for future research and policymaking aimed at sustainable urban heating solutions. 3 Results Building energy consumption Using the offline SURFEX -TEB-MinimalDX models (Methods), we examine the impact of transitioning from fossil -fuel and resistive heating -based systems to AAHP s on the annual heating and cooling energy consumption of Toulouse, France. This transition assessed over the building energy consumption (BEC; i.e., considering all heating sources such as gas, electric, wood, and oi l; Supplementary Fig. 2a) and electric e nergy consumption (EEC) only offers insights into the potential for energy savings and efficiency g ains. The baseline scenario, based on and evaluated against results reported by ref.30 (Supplementary Fig.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Improving Low-Fidelity Models of Li-ion Batteries via Hybrid Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics Samuel Filgueira da Silva, Mehmet Fatih Ozkan, Faissal El Idrissi, Prashanth Ramesh and Marcello Canova Abstract Accurate modeling of lithium ion (li-ion) bat- teries is essential for enhancing the safety, and efficiency of electric vehicles and renewable energy systems. This paper presents a data-inspired approach for improving the fidelity of reduced-order li-ion battery models. The proposed method combines a Genetic Algorithm with Sequentially Thresholded Ridge Regression (GA-STRidge) to identify and compensate for discrepancies between a low-fidelity model (LFM) and data generated either from testing or a high-fidelity model (HFM). The hybrid model, combining physics-based and data-driven methods, is tested across different driving cycles to demonstrate the ability to significantly reduce the voltage prediction error compared to the baseline LFM, while preserving computational efficiency. The model robustness is also evaluated under various operating conditions, showing low prediction errors and high Pearson correlation coefficients for terminal voltage in unseen environments. I. INTRODUCTION Accurate models of li-ion battery (LiB) cells play an essential role in ensuring effective monitoring, diagnostics, and control of battery systems, which are vital to applications such as portable electronic devices, stationary energy storage, and electrified vehicle 1 , 2 . Among various method, physics-based (electrochemical) models are extensively used for their ability to capture the complex electrochemical pro- cesses that govern the internal dynamics of LiBs 3 . These models rely on complex nonlinear and partial differential equations (PDEs) to predict physical phenomena that lead to the cell terminal voltage, including ion and charge transport, equilibrium potentials and interfacial reaction kinetics. While highly accurate, the high computational cost associated with solving the constitutive equations makes real-time control and large-scale simulation challenging 4 . This challenge motivates the development of reduced- order models, which offer faster computation time at the expense of accuracy, especially when capturing the intricate dynamics of battery physics at high C-rates 5 . To address this challenge, studies on data-driven modeling (DDM) tech- niques are being increasingly explored as a potential solution to complement traditional physics-based and reduced-order models 6 . Moreover, methods based on machine learning have been extensively leveraged to predict different battery indicators such as state of charge (SOC) 7 , 8 , 9 , state of health (SOH) 10 , 11 , and remaining useful life (RUL) 12 , 13 . 1Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Center for Automotive Research, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Emails: filgueiradasilva.1 osu.edu, ozkan.25 osu.edu, canova.1 osu.eduHowever, ensuring both robustness and interpretability in DDM for predicting battery dynamics remains a significant challenge, as these models often struggle to generalize across varying operating conditions and lack transparency on their mathematical structure, making it difficult to understand the rationale behind their decision-making process. In this con- text, regression techniques such as Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems (SINDy) 14 and Symbolic Regression 15 , 16 have emerged as promising approaches for generating interpretable models by identifying governing equations directly from data. For example, the authors in 17 employed SINDy with control (SINDYc) to predict the volt- age and SOC dynamics of Lithium-ion batteries (LiBs). In their work, the training data set was generated using a Doyle- Fuller-Newman (DFN) electrochemical model. While the approach captures the highly nonlinear dynamics that govern the output voltage behavior, the main shortcoming lies in the reliance on manual processes for selecting the appropriate library terms and sparsification parameters. To address the limitations of SINDYc, recent research has introduced a sequentially thresholded ridge regression (STRidge) method that tunes the sparsification parameters 18 . However, this approach still relies on predefined library functions to con- struct the sparse data-driven model. If a large number of irrelevant or redundant functions are included in the library, this approach may fail to predict the output accurately. To overcome the aforementioned challenges, this study proposes a bi-level data-driven method integrating meta- heuristic optimization with sparse regression. The proposed approach jointly optimizes the process of selecting both library terms and sparsification parameters to develop a more generalizable and parsimonious model. The starting point of this study is a low-fidelity model (LFM) of a LiB cell that is obtained via model order reduction from an electrochemical model 19 . The pre- diction accuracy is improved by creating a data-driven model of the error dynamics via a Genetic Algorithm (GA)- guided STRidge (GA-STRidge) approach, which leverages data generated from a high-fidelity model (HFM) 20 . By incorporating the proposed data-driven system identification, this study shows how the predictive accuracy of an LFM can be significantly improved while preserving computational efficiency and retaining knowledge of the effects that states and inputs of the LFM carry on the error dynamics. The paper is structured as follows. Section II summarizes the equations of the LFM, while Section III describes the hy- brid identification procedure. Finally, Section IV summarizes the training, validation and verification methodology.arXiv:2411.12935v1 eess.SY 20 Nov 2024 II. O VERVIEW OF LIB C ELLMODEL EQUATIONS A. Overview of Li-ion Battery Models The starting point for this study is a low-fidelity model of a li-ion cell, developed originally in 19 . This model, known as the electrochemical equivalent circuit model (E- ECM), is obtained via model order reduction, linearization and approximation of the governing equations of an elec- trochemical model to achieve high computational efficiency while preserving the characteristic dynamics originating from the lithium transport in the positive and negative electrodes. This section summarizes the relevant equations of the LFM, including the approximations used. The terminal volt- ageVLFM is defined as follows: VLFM(t) Up(cs,p,t) Un(cs,n,t) (ηp(cs,p,t) ηn(cs,n,t)) φohm(t) I(t)Rc(1) The kinetic overpotential ηiand the exchange current density i0iare expressed as: ηi(t) RT0( JiI(t)) Fi0,i(2) i0i(t) exp 1 Tre f 1 T(t) Eioi R Fki q cs,i(cs,max ,i cs,i)ce,i(3) where i p,n(positive or negative electrode), Eio,iis the activation energy, cmax ,irefers to the maximum surface concentration, ce,idenotes the electrolyte concentration, and Tre fis the reference temperature. A second-order Pad e approximation is employed to compute the lithium surface concentration cs,ifor the
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Graphical Abstract Intersecting near-optimal spaces: European power systems with more resilience to weather variability Aleksander Grochowicz, Koen van Greevenbroek, Fred Espen Benth, Marianne Zeyringer Reduced near-optimal feasible space (a few dimensions) Near-optimal feasible space of investment variables (hundreds of dimensions) Near-optimal feasible space (millions of dimensions) projection model optimisation with constraints dim. reduction 𝑦 capacities capacities totalinvestment operations spaces for different weather years intersection safety buffer robust design centre pre-image pre-image Highlights Intersecting near-optimal spaces: European power systems with more resilience to weather variability Aleksander Grochowicz, Koen van Greevenbroek, Fred Espen Benth, Marianne Zeyringer Open energy system optimization model for Europe run with decades of weather data Di erent weather years impact optimal solutions, but near-optimal spaces intersect Geometry of near-optimal spaces allows for robustness against perturbations More investment lowers variable costs leads to more robustness and fewer emissions Approximating near-optimal spaces is parallelizable, making large problems tractable Intersecting near-optimal spaces: European power systems with more resilience to weather variability Aleksander Grochowicza,1, , Koen van Greevenbroekb,1, Fred Espen Bentha, Marianne Zeyringerc aDepartment of Mathematics, University of Oslo, P .O. Box 1053 Blindern, Oslo, 0316, Norway bDepartment of Computer Science, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, Postboks 6050 Langnes, 9037, Tromsø, Norway cDepartment of Technology Systems, University of Oslo, P .O. Box 70, 2027, Kjeller, Norway Abstract We suggest a new methodology for designing robust energy systems. For this, we investigate so-called near-optimal solutions to energy system optimisation models; solutions whose objective values deviate only marginally from the optimum. Using a reﬁned method for obtaining explicit geometric descriptions of these near-optimal feasible spaces, we ﬁnd designs that are as robust as possible to perturbations. This contributes to the ongoing debate on how to deﬁne and work with robustness in energy systems modelling. We apply our methods in an investigation using multiple decades of weather data. For the ﬁrst time, we run a capacity expansion model of the European power system (one node per country) with a three-hourly temporal resolution and 41 years of weather data. While an optimisation with 41 weather years is at the limits of computational feasibility, we use the near-optimal feasible spaces of single years to gain an understanding of the design space over the full time period. Speciﬁcally, we intersect all near-optimal feasible spaces for the individual years in order to get designs that are likely to be feasible over the entire time period. We ﬁnd signiﬁcant potential for investment ﬂexibility, and verify the feasibility of these designs by simulating the resulting dispatch problem with four decades of weather data. They are characterised by a shift towards more onshore wind and solar power, while emitting more than 50 less CO 2than a cost-optimal solution over that period. Our work builds on recent developments in the ﬁeld, including techniques such as Modelling to Generate Alternatives (MGA) and Modelling All Alternatives (MAA), and provides new insights into the geometry of near-optimal feasible spaces and the importance of multi-decade weather variability for energy systems design. We also provide an e ective way of working with a multi-decade time frame in a highly parallelised manner. Our implementation is open-sourced, adaptable and is based on PyPSA-Eur. Keywords: Climate-resilient energy systems, Energy system optimization model, Weather uncertainty, Near-optimal solutions, Robust energy systems, Modeling to generate alternatives 1. Introduction The climate crisis and tumbling prices for renewable technologies in the last decade are leading to an unprecedented shift to variable renewable and other low-carbon energy sources. The pace and extent at which this transition is projected to take place often corresponds to a complete overhaul of currently existing energy systems within a few decades. This necessitates a renewed understanding of the workings and planning of energy systems, taking into account future unknowns including weather, climate, costs, and politics. Corresponding author Email address: aleksgro math.uio.no (Aleksander Grochowicz) 1Equal contribution Accepted version, submitted to Energy Economics. 2023 3rd January 2023 In the domain of energy system modelling, grappling with these unknowns is an open research problem which has prompted many di erent approaches. In particular, weather variability has been identiﬁed to have a large impact on model solutions: cost-optimal solutions are often fragile in the sense that modelling with one weather year can produce solutions that are infeasible for other weather years. At the same time, recent work involving the relaxation of cost-optimality has revealed the opportunities and insights provided by the near-optimal feasible space of energy system optimisation models. Still, existing methods only map out near-optimal solutions partially or heuristically, and a complete understanding of the theoretical and computational trade-o s has not yet been developed. In this paper, we introduce a methodology to study robustness of energy systems against uncertainties in inputs and apply it to inter-annual weather variability. To start with, we investigate methods for approximating projections of near-optimal feasible spaces of energy system models. We then intersect these spaces for varying input data to produce solutions which are feasible in all scenarios. Finally, we propose to consider points well in the interior of this intersection as candidate robust solutions. This geometric approach lends itself to building increased resilience against uncertainties and perturbation in a systematic way and generating greater ﬂexibility for policymakers. We are interested in the problem of long-term planning of the European power system with a large share of renewable production capacity in order to meet emission targets. Capacity expansion models are often used for this purpose, in which capacities of generation technologies, storage, and transmission are optimised. The model at the same time ensures feasibility by simultaneously solving the corresponding optimal dispatch problem over a certain time period, simulating the operations of the network. Such models are vital exploratory tools used to shape high-level European energy policy. In this study, we use the open-source, bottom-up energy system optimisation model (ESOM) called PyPSA-Eur 1 for our implementation. PyPSA-Eur consists of a model-building routine based on the PyPSA (Python for Power System Analysis) framework 2 , collecting and processing the required input data from various sources. It assembles a faithful representation
__label__energy	Safety-Aware Hybrid Control of Airborne Wind Energy Systems Nikolaus Vertovec Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford Parks Road, OX1 3PJ Sina Ober-Blöbaum Department of Mathematics, Paderborn University, 33100 Kostas Margellos Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford Parks Road, OX1 3PJ A fundamental concern in progressing Airborne Wind Energy (AWE) operations towards commercial success, is guaranteeing that safety requirements placed on the systems are met. Due to the high dimensional complexity of AWE systems, however, formal mathematical ro- bustnessguaranteesbecomediﬃculttocompute. WedrawonresearchfromHamilton-Jacobi (HJ)reachabilityanalysistocomputetheoptimalcontrolpolicyfortrackingaﬂightpath,while enforcing safety constraints on the system. In addition, the zero-sublevel set of the computed value function inherent in HJ reachability analysis indicates the backward reachable set, the set of states from which it is possible to safely drive the system into a target set within a given time without entering undesirable states. Furthermore, we derive a switching law, such that the safety controller can be used in conjunction with arbitrary least restrictive controllers to provide a safe hybrid control law. In such a setup, the safety controller is only activated when thesystemapproachestheboundaryofitsmaneuverabilityenvelope. Suchahybridcontrollaw isanotableimprovementoverexistingrobustcontrolapproachesthatdeteriorateperformance by assuming the worst-case environmental and system behavior at all times. We illustrate our results via extensive simulation-based studies. I. Introduction Withtheloomingthreatoftheclimatecrisisbecomingevermoredetrimental,theneedforlow-costandreliable sourcesofenergybecomesincreasinglypressing. Windremainstheprimarynon-hydrorenewableandtoreachnet-zero energytargetsof8008TWhin2030,willneedtogrowannuallyby 18 between2021and2030 1 . Conventionalwind turbineshavehighmaterialcostsandoftenstrugglewithunreliablewindpatternspresentatlowaltitudes. Airborne Wind Energy (AWE) systems solve many of the problems of conventional wind turbines by harnessing wind energy at Doctoral Student, Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford; nikolaus.vertovec eng.ox.ac.uk. Professor, Department of Mathematics, Paderborn University, 33100; sinaober math.uni-paderborn.de Associate Professor, Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford; kostas.margellos eng.ox.ac.ukarXiv:2212.07199v1 eess.SY 14 Dec 2022 Fig. 1 Tether rupture during traction phase of ﬂight. The red dot marks the point during ﬂight at which a tether rupture occurs due to the maximum tether force being exceeded. high altitudes, where stronger and more reliable wind currents can be found. Thus, over the past decade, we have seen a rapid increase in research and development into AWE from both academia and the private sector 2, 3 . In this paper, we only consider Ground-Gen systems, whereby energy is obtained by continuously performing two phasesofﬂight,a tractionphase,anda retraction phase. Duringthetractionphase,atetheredkiteorﬁxed-wingaircraft isﬂownincrosswindconditionsataltitudesofupto1000maboveground. Thetractionforceactingontheaircraft s tether is converted into electricity using a generator and winch located at the base of the tether 4,5 . For a discussion ofalternativeAWEsystems,wereferto 5,6 . Sincethetetherisgraduallyreeledoutduringthetractionphase,the system will eventually need to be reset. For this, the aircraft is ﬂown back to its starting altitude upwind in a phase commonly referred to as the retraction phase. During the retraction phase, a small amount of the previously generated energy needs to be spent on reeling in the tether. Nevertheless, AWE systems have been shown to be able to create a net energy output of over 20 kW 5 with proposed larger systems producing energy in the range of MWs 7 . For AWE systems to become widely adopted, it is necessary to provide formal guarantees on the state operation andcontrolofsuchsystems. Theaimofthispaperistoensurerobustnessinthesenseofsafety-awarecontrolofan AWE system with minimal impact on power generation. To this end, we propose a hybrid control law, whereby a safety controller is only activated when a critical system failure is predicted to occur. We consider an AWE setup as proposed in 8 , whereby a ﬁxed-wing aircraft is ﬂown in a ﬁgure of eight ﬂight pattern, controlled using nonlinear dynamic inversion (NDI), a control strategy common in aviation applications. The tether conﬁguration is changed from 8 , such that a tether rupture is deemed to occur when a maximum tether force of 1.87 kN is exceeded. As can be seen in Fig. 1, thetetherrupturesbeforetheaircraftcancompleteonefullcycleofﬂight. UsingHamiltonJacobi(HJ)reachability analysis, we will synthesize a safety controller as well as switching conditions, such that in a hybrid control setup, minimal penalties on power generation are incurred, while ensuring a safe ﬂight without tether rupture. 2 HJ reachability analysis has become a well-adopted formal veriﬁcation method, whereby theoptimal controller is derived through computation of the backward reachable set (BRS). Its advantages include compatibility with nonlinear systemdynamics, formaltreatmentof nonlinearbounds,and recentlyalsowith multi-objective optimizationproblems 9,10 . However,sinceHJreachabilityanalysisrequiressolvingaquasi-variationalinequalityoveragriddedstatespace, it is subject to the curse of dimensionality. As such, its applications have been limited to low-dimensional systems 11 . To this end, we will derive a novel low-dimensional formulation of the system dynamics of AWE systems and formulate the safety critical control problem as a diﬀerential game of two players. Furthermore, for numerical reasons that will become evident later on, we are required to grid the state space, thus necessitating a coordinate transformation thatensures onlyrelevantstates areconsideredfor controllersynthesis,minimizing numericaloverhead. Thusthe key contributions of this paper are 1)the development of a simpliﬁed low dimensional AWE model that is accurate enough for safety-critical control purposes (Section III), 2)the synthesis and deployment of the safety-critical controller based on the developed abstractions and HJ reachability analysis, a non-trivial application for which we have made the code and simulation environment available (Section IV), 3)the computation of the optimal control disturbance actions that optimize the Hamiltonian of the underlying optimal control problem, which is case-dependent and non-trivial in the setting (Section IV.B). 4)the validation of the performance of the controller by applying it to a high ﬁdelity model, thus rendering our controller as an add-on to existing tools to guarantee safety (Section V). The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section II discusses the AWE model used for simulation purposes as well as the guidance strategy and baseline controller. Section III introduces the simpliﬁcations, abstractions, and the newreferenceframeusedtoderivealowdimensionalmodeloftheAWEsystemsuitableforsafety-controlsynthesis, with the safety controller being derived and introduced in Section IV. Finally, in Section V we validate the controller in its hybrid control setup using the high ﬁdelity AWE model and discuss the eﬀects on power generation with Section VI providing concluding remarks and directions of future research. II. Modeling ThemodelingofAWEsystemshasbeenwellstudiedandavarietyofdeﬁnitionsfortheequationsofmotionhave been derived. Yet commonly AWE systems require a high number of states in order to accurately capture both the dynamics of the kite or aircraft as well as the tether and the associated winch controller. Since the goal of this paper is toderiveasafety-criticalcontrollerfortheAWEsystemusingHJreachabilityanalysis,weseekthedevelopmentofa simpliﬁed yet accurate enough, from a control point of view,
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Chapter 1 Hydrogen storage and compression Sofoklis S. Makridis1,2 1.1 Towards a hydrogen economy Energy has always been the driving force in the technological and economic development of societies. The consumption of a significant amount of energy is required to provide basic living conditions of developed countries (heating, trans- portation, lighting, etc.). Today s energy supply has a considerable impact on theenvironment, since it is fuelled by the burning of fossil fuels. In addition to this, the fossil fuel reserves are decreasing while the demand for energy is rapidly rising. Climate change, the depletion and geographical segregation of fossil fuel resources,health related issues as well as energy poverty constitute the driving forces towards the pursuit of alternative energy sources. In addition, countries with no access to oil reserves are being dependent from other countries for their energy supply, with astrong impact on politics and financial issues. But apart from occasional financial recessions, the long-term need for increasing amounts of energy as countries develop will become a major rate limiting step in the growth of the world economy 1 .The last years there is an on-going research on alternative fuels in order to overcome the fossil energy dependence and to provide a sustainable growth of economies and societies. In view of the above, countries that release the largest amounts of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere compared to the energy production are expected to mini- mise CO 2emission and at the same time improve the share of clean energy in total energy consumption. The renewable, non-conventional energy sources, such as solar and wind energy, will remain available for infinite period. But due to the inherent nature of renewable energy resources being intermittent, there is a need tostore any surplus electrical energy produced in order to be used during high energy 1Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Western Macedonia, GR50132 Kozani, Greece 2Department of Environmental and Natural Resources Management, University of Patras, GR30100 Agrinio, Greece CH001 18 June 2016; 11:30:13 demand periods 2, 3 . The following are the solutions to store surplus energy produced (either in full operation or in an experimental mode) 4 7 : a. compressed air energy storage b. batteries c. flywheel (mechanical inertia) energy storage d. hydroelectricity (pumped water energy storage) e. superconducting magnetic energy storage f. thermal energy storage g. hydrogen production and then storage or injection into natural gas grid (power to gas) In this study, only the solutions related to hydrogen are discussed. As it is derived from the above, hydrogen is an energy carrier and it is related to a process that begins and ends with plain water, known as the hydrogen fuel cycle. In a more particular manner, water is split into hydrogen and oxygen by the process of electrolysis and then they re-combine, producing electricity and water vapour, using a fuel cell. Furthermore, hydrogen is abundant (e.g. within water) and evenlydistributed throughout the world providing security in energy. But even in this case, electricity is needed. Conventional sources of electricity are being used for electro- lysis, and as a result the hydrogen carbon footprint remains more or less high. Thus,with renewable energy powered electrolysers (i.e. from solar or aeolian generators), green hydrogen can be produced 3, 8 . But it is important to realise that hydrogen is not a fuel source; it is an energy carrier, and has led to a worldwide developmenteffort for hydrogen technology to power industrial, residential and transportation infrastructure a concept known as the Hydrogen Economy 9 . On Earth hydrogen is rarely found in the pure form, but usually in a wide variety of inorganic and organic chemical compounds, the most common being water (H 2O). Hydrogen forms chemical compounds (hydrides) with nearly all other elements. Due to their ability to form long chains and complex molecules, combinations withcarbon play a key role for organic life (hydrocarbons, carbohydrate) 10, 11 . The diatomic H 2gas molecule can be produced from various sources. Cur- rently, the most widespread process for the generation of hydrogen is the steamreforming from light carbohydrates, which, however, additionally generates unde- sirable CO 2 12 . Alternatively, hydrogen can be obtained from water dissociation during electrolysis. This green hydrogen production from sustainable energysources is a fully reversible process and it is a solution for sustainable ongoing hydrogen production for industries, storing green energy without increasing its carbon footprint and supplying energy for green mobility (transportation) 13 . In a Hydrogen Economy the lightest of all gases has to be processed like any other market commodity. It has to be packaged, transported by surface vehicles or pipelines, stored and transferred to the end user. There it can be converted back intoelectricity by fuel cells or other conversion devices. High-grade electricity from renewable or nuclear sources is needed not only to generate hydrogen by electro- lysis but also for almost all essential marketing stages. At the end of the chain muchless electricity becomes available than that has been invested upstream in the process of generation and marketing hydrogen 14, 15 .2 Methane and hydrogen for energy storage CH001 18 June 2016; 11:30:13 1.2 Hydrogen Thermo-physical properties Hydrogen is a chemical element with a chemical symbol H and atomic number 1. In normal conditions it is colourless, odourless and insipid gas, formed by diatomic molecules, H 2. It is the lightest element on the periodic table and the most abundant chemical substance in the universe. Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced inthe early sixteenth century, via the mixing of metals with acids. English chemist Henry Cavendish was the first to identify the properties of hydrogen after he evolved hydrogen gas by reacting zinc metal with hydrochloric acid, in 1766 16 .Seven years later, Antoine Lavoisier gave it the name hydrogen, from the Greek words Vdwr and gßgnïmai, which means water-former from its property to produce water when combusted 17 . Hydrogen consists of three isotopes, most of which is 1H. The ordinary isotope of hydrogen, H, is known as protium . In 1932, Urey announced the discovery
__label__energy	A Review on Response Strategies in Infrastructure Network Restoration Subhojit Biswas Bahar C avdar Joseph Geunes Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Texas A M University, College Station, TX 77843 Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, 12180 Abstract This paper reviews the literature on response strategies for restoring infrastructure networks in the aftermath of a disaster. Our motivation for this review is twofold. First, the frequency and magnitude of natural and man-made disasters (e.g., wild fires, tornadoes, global pandemics, terrorist attacks) have been increasing. These events disrupt the operation of infrastructure net- works, preventing the delivery of vital goods and services such as power and food. Therefore, it is critical to understand the state-of-the-art in responding to network disruptions in order to develop efficient strategies to mitigate their impacts. Second, it is critical to enable timely decisions in a rapidly changing and unpredictable environment while accounting for numerous interrelated factors. Because the vast majority of response decision problems are computation- ally challenging, quickly finding solutions that are compatible with real-time decision making is a difficult task. Hence, it is important to understand the nature of response activities and decisions, as well as the available solution methodologies and inherent trade-offs between com- putation time and solution quality. We review quantitative response methodologies developed for infrastructure network restoration, classifying relevant studies based on the properties of the underlying network. In particular, we focus on resource allocation, scheduling, routing and repair efforts within the domain of power, road, and water, oil and gas network restoration. We also discuss open research questions and future research directions. Keywords: Resilience, Network Restoration, Response Strategies, Logistics of Restoration, In- frastructure Networks, Review 1 Introduction Over the past few decades, disasters worldwide have resulted in significant economic, social, and physical losses, causing considerable negative consequences for populations living in affected ar- eas due to disruptions in the operation of critical infrastructure networks. Typical infrastructure subhojit.biswas tamu.edu cavdab2 rpi.edu geunes tamu.edu 1arXiv:2407.14510v1 physics.soc-ph 6 Jun 2024 S Biswas, B C avdar, J Geunes networks, namely power, water, natural gas, telecommunications and physical road networks, are inter-connected, which allows them to function collaboratively to ensure a steady flow of necessary goods and services. Society s high level of susceptibility to various hazards is underscored by recent events including Hurricane Harvey (2017), floods in South Carolina (2015), Hurricane Sandy (2012), earthquakes in Chile (2010), New Zealand (2010-2011), and Japan (2011), the latter of which was followed by a Tsunami, and winter storms in China (2008) (Perrier et al., 2013). In February 2021, winter storm Uri struck Texas, affecting 4.5 million homes without power for several days (Pollock, 2021; Busby et al., 2021). The resulting power outages also lead to disruptions in medical services and water supply (McNamara, 2021). AccuWeather estimated the economic costs during the winter to be 130 billion in Texas and 150 billion nationwide as a result of production losses and physical damage to infrastructure, property, and equipment (Puelo, 2021). These negative impacts highlight a pressing need to improve and promote resilient infrastructure by government organizations. The United Nations disaster risk reduction office recently published a report focus- ing on mitigating risks and enhancing resilience for critical infrastructure (such as energy, water, transport, and telecommunication) in Central Asia and Europe to address the adverse impacts of climate change and the risk associated with natural disasters (United and Nations, 2022). The U.S. government has similarly placed increased emphasis on resilience planning for these critical infrastructure networks (White House, 2022). Resilience planning is generally divided into two phases, a preparedness phase and a response phase. The preparedness phase takes place before the occurrence of a disaster. Preparedness actions focus on pre-disaster strategies such as positioning resources in anticipation of disruptions, capacity planning and strengthening the underlying network. The response phase takes place after a disaster and mainly focuses on the allocation of available resources (e.g., response crews, materials) to affected locations in order to restore the system with minimum negative impact. While it is critical to have efficient strategies for both phases to achieve higher levels of resilience, this review will focus on the response phase for infrastructure network resilience. Our motivation for this is twofold. First, preparedness actions generally require large investments and are spread over a long time frame, with a focus on enabling effective response in the future. Since disruptions occur without warning and even before planning-phase activities can be fully implemented, having current and efficient response strategies in place becomes critical. Second, response decisions are computationally highly demanding. A key metric that determines the performance of a response strategy is how long it takes to recover after failures. This recovery time depends on multiple factors, including how long it takes to determine a response decision and the efficiency of the resulting decision. The former is related to the computation time and the latter is a function of the quality of the solution obtained. Therefore, there is a significant trade-off between the time allocated to the computation of potential solutions and the resulting solution quality, especially in light of the real-time need for fast response actions. With this in mind, we review the literature on recovery strategies for infrastructure networks focusing on power, road, and water, gas, and oil networks using the classification shown in in Figure 1. These systems of networks are highly interconnected, such that the disruption of one of them might lead to disruption of others (please see Figure 2). 2 S Biswas, B C avdar, J Geunes Recovery Strategies of Infrastructure Network Gas, Oil and Water Network DesignCrew DispatchingRoad Debris ClearanceIncremental Network DesignRepair Crew DispatchingPower Incremental Network Design and Network ReconfigurationPortable Energy Source SystemManaging Repair Crew Figure 1: Broad classification of recovery strategies for different infrastructure networks. Figure 2: Interdependency between critical infrastructure networks (Source: Zuev and Beer, 2018). This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 discusses the methodology used in conducting the literature review. In Section 3, we summarize definitions and characterizations of resilience. In Section 4,
__label__energy	ACCEPTED FOR PRESENTATION IN 11THBULK POWER SYSTEMS DYNAMICS AND CONTROL SYMPOSIUM (IREP 2022), JULY 25-30, 2022, BANFF, CANADA 1 Inertia Adequacy in Transient Stability Models for Synthetic Electric Grids Adam Birchﬁeld Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, USA abirchﬁeld tamu.edu Abstract If a disturbance rocks a low-inertia power system, the frequency decline may be too rapid to arrest before it triggers undesirable responses from generators and loads. In the worst case, this instability could lead to blackout and major equipment damage. Electric utilities, to combat this, study inertia adequacy in systems that are particularly vulnerable. This process, involving detailed transient simulations, usually leads to a notion of a system-wide inertia ﬂoor. Ongoing questions in this analysis are in how to set the inertial ﬂoor and to what extent the location of frequency control resources matters. This paper proposes a new analysis technique that quantiﬁes theoretical locational rate of change of frequency (ROCOF) as a computationally efﬁcient screening algorithm scalable to large systems. An additional challenge in moving this area forward is the lack of high-quality, public benchmark dynamics cases. This paper presents a synthetic case for such purposes and a methodology for validation, to ensure that it is well suited to inertia adequacy studies to improve electric grid performance. Index Terms Synthetic electric grids, transient stability, iner- tia, wind generators I. I NTRODUCTION Much of the growth in renewable electric power generation in North America and the rest of the world is in technology that does not use large, synchronous machines. Nuclear, hydroelec- tric, and fossil fuel generation are characterized by massive rotors spinning at synchronous speed, but solar and wind turbines are different. And this difference appears in the way bulk power systems respond to large transient disturbances. When transient power imbalance occurs, the system s near- instantaneous response is for the rotational kinetic energy (inertia) to serve as an immediately-available brief energy resource. Inertia is a buffer to slow frequency decline, until frequency response resources and control systems can adjust generator outputs and load consumption to bring the network back into balance. The current paper seeks to provide clarity and detail in two ongoing areas of interest in inertia analysis of elec- tric grids. First, the paper presents a fast, conservative bus- level inertia adequacy assessment approach. It is common practice for utilities to assess electric grid inertia capability with system-level calculations that ignore all network effects and compare the amount of inertia online to predetermined conservative inertia ﬂoors. Alternatively, utilities do detailed transient stability modeling that would consider network and controls effects; such an approach is quite detailed but canbe computationally intensive. This paper s approach is in between. It is very computationally efﬁcient, much faster than a power ﬂow solution, but provides more detail because it considers the locational impacts of where the disturbance occurs, where the inertia sources are located, and where rapid frequency decline would likely cause undesirable effects. The method accomplishes this by calculating the local theoretical rate of change of frequency (ROCOF), which may vary from system-wide ROCOF by signiﬁcant amounts, particularly in smaller systems, looser-connected systems, and systems with an uneven distribution of inertia. Second, the work of this paper is predicated on the re- ality that when it comes to doing research in the area of inertia sufﬁciency and power system transient dynamics in general, public test data is limited to non-existent. Because of restrictions associated with critical electric infrastructure information (CEII), access to real data is difﬁcult to obtain. Some public test cases do exist, such as the standard 9- Bus WSCC model, but for most public cases the dynamics modeling does not represent the size, scope, and character of today s transitioning grid. This insufﬁciency is particularly signiﬁcant with inertia adequacy studies, because the analysis can change with larger systems and how different, separate areas interact. This paper builds on recent work to release a 7000-bus synthetic (ﬁctitious) dataset for general research use. The paper shows how this case has been built to reﬂect the challenges of modern large-scale bulk electric grid dynamics under the conditions of a rapidly approaching inertia ﬂoor. A. Background on Electric Grid Inertia Evaluation The biggest factors affecting how important inertia studies are to any particular electric grid are its overall size and the proportion of generation that comes from synchronous machines. Many large grids worldwide, including those in North America, have been large enough with a large enough proportion of synchronous generators, that historically the connected inertia has been more than sufﬁcient 1 3 . Of the three main electric grids in North America, the eastern interconnect (EI) is the largest, most tightly connected, and has the highest proportion of synchronous generators. The western interconnection (Western Electric Coordinating Council, or WECC) is the second largest, with a higher proportion of non-synchronous generation and certain areas less tightlyarXiv:2207.03396v1 eess.SY 7 Jul 2022 ACCEPTED FOR PRESENTATION IN 11THBULK POWER SYSTEMS DYNAMICS AND CONTROL SYMPOSIUM (IREP 2022), JULY 25-30, 2022, BANFF, CANADA 2 connected to the rest 3 , 4 . Both of these systems are not expected to approach inertia concerns for at least a decade 1 . One example of a system that is beginning to examine inertia in more detail is the Texas interconnection in North America (the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ER- COT). ERCOT is the smallest of the three North American grids, and it has been carefully monitoring the large growth in wind generation in the state, particularly in the west, and the potential for low inertia operational conditions to pose a risk for reliable operations 5 , 6 . A recent study has concluded that inertia levels have dropped to a minimum of 130 GW-s in 2017, with detailed analysis indicating that inertia levels above 100 GW-s are sufﬁcient for current ERCOT operating practice 7 . These studies were done by analyzing the interconnect as a whole, making the typical assumption of a single system-wide frequency. Another system that is
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	Insurance Contract for High Renewable Energy Integration Dongwei Zhao, Hao Wang, Jianwei Huang, Xiaojun Lin Abstract The increasing penetration of renewable energy poses signiﬁcant challenges to power grid reliability. There have been increasing interests in utilizing ﬁnancial tools, such as insurance, to help end-users hedge the potential risk of lost load due to renewable energy variability. With insurance, a user pays a premium fee to the utility, so that he will get compensated in case his demand is not fully satisﬁed. A proper insurance design needs to resolve the following two challenges: (i) users reliability preference is private information; and (ii) the insurance design is tightly coupled with the renewable energy investment decision. To address these challenges, we adopt the contract theory to elicit users private reliability preferences, and we study how the utility can jointly optimize the insurance contract and the planning of renewable energy. A key analytical challenge is that the joint optimization of the insurance design and the planning of renewables is non-convex. We resolve this difﬁculty by revealing important structural properties of the optimal solution, using the help of two benchmark problems: the no-insurance benchmark and the social-optimum benchmark. Compared with the no- insurance benchmark, we prove that the social cost and users total energy cost are always no larger under the optimal contract. Simulation results show that the largest beneﬁt of the insurance contract is achieved at a medium electricity-bill price together with a low type heterogeneity and a high renewable uncertainty. I. I NTRODUCTION A. Background and motivation The transition from fossil energy sources to renewable energy sources is accelerating at the global scale as the threat of climate change continues to grow. From 2014 to 2020, the globally installed capacity of solar PV has increased from about 40 GW to 140 GW, while the wind energy capacity has seen a growth from about 50 GW to 90 GWh 1 . Many countries have set sustainability goals to increase the penetration of renewable energy in electricity supplies. For example, the California electricity market in the US sets a target of generating over two-thirds of its electricity from non- fossil and non-nuclear resources by 2030 2 . This work is supported in part by the Shenzhen Science and Technology Program (Project JCYJ20210324120011032), Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (Project 2021B1515120008), the Shenzhen In- stitute of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Robotics for Society, NSF through grant ECCS-2129631, and the Australian Research Council (ARC) Discovery Early Career Researcher Award (DECRA) under Grant DE230100046. Dongwei Zhao is with the MIT Energy Initiative, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Hao Wang is with the Department of Data Science and Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Monash University. Jianwei Huang is with the School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shenzhen Institute of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Robotics for Society (corresponding author). Xiaojun Lin is with the Elmore Family School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University.The increasing penetration of renewable energy generation, however, poses challenges to system reliability. When a sig- niﬁcant amount of renewable energy supply ﬂuctuates based on weather conditions, users may experience lost loads (i.e., unsatisﬁed demands) more often 3 . In principle, lost load could be alleviated by investing in other costly low-carbon energy resources. For example, energy storage could provide ﬂexibility, which is however costly. Alternatively, the utility can simply invest in more renewable capacity to reduce the probability of low supply, which can also be costly. Therefore, it is crucial to provide the right ﬁnancial arrangement so that not only can end-users hedge the potential risk due to lost load, but the utility is also incentivized to invest in the right amount of additional resources to improve grid reliability. The traditional ﬁnancial arrangement between the utility and the end-users is usually through the electricity bill at either static or dynamic rates. Unfortunately, such an electricity bill does not provide a way for the end-users to get compensation for lost load, nor does it enable the utility to directly recover the cost of reliability-improving investment. In contrast, in this paper we are interested in more advanced ﬁnancial tools, in particular insurance, to address the above open question. With insurance, a user pays a premium fee to the utility in advance, so that he will get compensated if his demand is not fully satisﬁed 4 . In return, the utility can use the premium fees to invest in reliability-improving resources. Note that by choosing among different insurance contracts, the end- users can express their heterogeneous valuation of lost load. Therefore, we expect that the insurance contract will align the utility s cost with end-users value of lost load more accurately, so that the utility is incentivized to invest in the right amount of additional resources. As a ﬁrst step towards this direction, in this paper, we focus on a very-high renewable penetration setting, where the sole investment option that the utility considers is to invest in more renewable generation. We leave as future work the study of the investment of other resources, such as energy storage. To design a proper insurance scheme, however, the utility needs to resolve two challenges. First, different users have distinct preferences of reliability 5 , which will inﬂuence the type of insurance that they want to purchase. However, such user preferences are often private information unavailable to the utility. Second, since the utility s renewable energy investment can affect the system reliability, it will also impact users insurance choices. Hence, it is crucial for the utility to jointly consider the renewable energy planning and insurance design together. These challenges motivate us to answer the 978-1-6654-3254-2 22 31.00 2022 IEEEarXiv:2209.10363v1 eess.SY 21 Sep 2022 following key question in the scenario of very-high renewable energy penetration: How to jointly optimize an insurance contract and the renewable energy planning, which helps users hedge the risks of lost load and helps the utility improve social welfare? B. Related works Several recent work has started to explore the beneﬁts and design of reliability insurance for electricity
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	Real-Time Simulation of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 Electric Vehicle Charging Systems Li Bao, Lingling Fan , Zhixin Miao Department of Electrical Engineering, University of South Florida, Tampa FL USA 33620. Email: linglingfan usf.edu. Abstract A charging system is required to convert ac electricity from the grid to dc electricity to charge an electric vehicle (EV) battery. According to the Society of Automatic Engineers (SAE) standard, EV chargers can be divided into three levels based on power rating: Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3. This paper investigates the circuit topologies and control principles of EV charging systems at each level. Three high- delity testbeds of EV charging systems for a 10 kWh battery are designed and implemented in real-time digital simulator RT-Lab. The testbeds include modeling details such as switching of semiconductors. Twenty- ve minutes real-time simulation is conducted for each testbed. Detailed dynamic performance of the circuits and the controls at every stage are presented to demonstrate the charging process. All three level EV charging systems employ high-frequency transformer embedded dual active bridge (DAB) dc dc converter to regulate battery side dc voltage and current. Hence, average model-based linear system analysis is given to con gure the parameters of the phase shift control adopted by the DAB dc dc converter. In addition, power factor control (PFC) that is employed for Level 1 and Level 2 single-phase ac charging systems, three-phase voltage source converter control that is employed for Level 3 three-phase ac charging systems, are all analyzed. The three testbeds, with their detailed circuit parameters and control parameters presented, can be used as reference testbeds for EV grid integration research. Keywords: Battery charging, RT-Lab, real-time simulation 1. Introduction Environmental degradation, energy security and oil depletion urge governments and society to use clean energy. In U.S., the transportation energy consumption accounted for 29 of total energy in 2017 1 . Majority of the energy consumed is fossil oil. The large amount consumption of oil causes air pollution by carbon dioxide emission, nitrogen oxide emission and other poisonous gases. Therefore, the traditional transportation vehicles, such as internal combustion engine vehicles, are expected to be reduced, while EVs are expected to have increased usage. EVs use electrical power stored in a battery to drive motors. The battery is charged from grid through a charging system that converts the grid ac electricity to dc electricity. The charging system is categorized into three levels according the SAE standard 2 . Level 1 charger utilizes household outlets for overnight charging. The charging voltage is consistent with house use at 120 V level. The charging time is about 12 hours. Level 1 charging is the slowest charging. Level 2 charger is designed for private or public facilities Preprint submitted to arXiv November 5, 2021arXiv:2111.02506v1 eess.SY 3 Nov 2021 such as workplace or mall. The charging voltage is 240 V and the current is up to 60 A. Level 3 charging is fast charging for commercial use. Level 3 chargers are located at speci c locations. Level 3 chargers use three phase voltage sources and have over 20 kW power level. The three charging levels are summarized in Table 1. Table 1: Charging levels summarization Charging Supply Charging Rating Level Voltage Current Power Level 1 120 V, single-phase up to 16 A up to 1 :92 kW Level 2 240 V, single-phase up to 60 A up to 14 :4 kW Level 3 Not nalized, 3-phase Not nalized over 20 kW In order to realize high e ciency in power transfer and convert AC grid voltage to DC voltage, a charging system may include a recti er to rectify ac to dc, a power factor correction (PFC) boost dc-dc circuit to achieve unity power factor, and a dual-active-bridge (DAB) dc-dc converter to achieve exible dc to dc voltage conversion. The controls include DC bus voltage control, PFC control and constant current constant voltage (CC CV) control. Computer simulation is the cheapest tool to conduct experiments. Considering the complicated model and control structure, the o -line simulation software such as PSCAD and PSpice become ill suited due to low simulation speed and limited memory. Compared to the o -line simulation, real-time simulation is able to provide fast, reliable and accurate simulation 3 . In this paper, three testbeds representing three levels of EV charging systems will be implemented in Real-Time Laboratory (RT-Lab), a real-time simulator developed by Opal-RT technologies 4, 5, 6 . The paper investigates the detailed models of charging systems, including their circuit topologies and control structures. Principles of each control, e.g., PFC, phase shift, are examined in detail. The models are then implemented in RT-Lab. Simulation results such as the inductor current of PFC, DC bus voltage, phase shift of DAB s ac voltage at two ends, and battery state-of-charge (SOC) are presented and examined. The three testbeds are compared for 25 minutes real-time simulation of 10 kWh battery charging. To the authors best knowledge, there is no existence of real-time simulation models for EV chargers of all three level in the literature. The contribution of this paper is two-fold. (1) Simulation models of EV charging systems at three levels are developed in RT-Lab real-time simulator in discrete time domain. (2) The charging process and the principles of control strategies are examined and further validated through real-time simulation results. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Level 1 and Level 2 charging systems are presented in Section 2. Level 3 charging system is presented in Section 3. The RT-Lab structure and performance are illustrated in Section 4. Section 5 demonstrates the real-time simulation results for the three testbeds. Finally Section 6 concludes this paper. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 charging systems Both Level 1 and Level 2 charging systems use single phase ac voltage as source. The ac electricity rstly is passed to the diode-based AC DC converter and is recti ed to a DC form. A PFC boost circuit is followed 2 to adjust the DC voltage and
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	1 Energy Strategy Energy Realpolitik : Towards a Sustainable Energy Strategy W. Udo Schröder Departments of Chemistry and Physics University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y. 14627 Schroeder chem.rochester.edu Abstract A long-term strategy based on existing technological, ecological, economical, and geopolitical realities is urgently needed to develop a sustainable energy economy, which should be designed with adaptability to unpredicted changes in any of these aspects. While only a highly diverse energy portfolio and conservation can ultimately guarantee optimum sustainability, based on a comparison of current primary energy generation methods, it is argued that future energy strategy has to rely heavily on expanded coal and nuclear energy sectors. A comparison of relative potentials, merits and risks asso- ciated with fossil-fuel, renewable, and nuclear technologies suggests that the balance of technologies should be shifted in favor of new-generation , safe nuclear methods to pro- duce electricity, while clean-coal plants should be assigned to transportation fuel. Novel nuclear technologies exploit fission of uranium and thorium as primary energy sources with fast-spectrum and transmutation (burner) reactors. A closed fuel cycle and waste transmutation resolve the strategic issues associated with nuclear power. Innovative reactor designs utilize spallation of heavy metal s in subcritical accelerator driven systems or molten-salt reactors. Importation and reconstruction of technical expertise already lost and aversion of further erosion are preconditions to any successful energy strategy. Research opportunities to perfect innovative nuclear, coal, and renewable energy tech- nologies should be pursued. Keywords: sustainable energy econ omy, clean coal and advanced nuclear energy systems Introduction As the Earth s population and its aspira- tions for a healthier and more prosperous stan- dard of living grow, requirements of conti- nuous, clean and environmentally sustainable primary energy production increase dramatical- ly. Typical estimates envision the global demand to increase from 12 TW today, 85 of which is fossil-fueled, to more than 45TW by mid- century. Earth s dwindling energy resources and insufficient basic energy infrastructure give am- ple reason to doubt that such enormous de- mands could actually be satisfied. Increasing in- ternational competition for access to energy re-sources adds reason to be concerned about the degree to which goals of national energy inde- pendence and security can be approached. Pro- posed energy strategies lead to the conclusion that the production ideals stated above are vir- tually unattainable. In particular, the U.S. frac- tion (25 ) of total world energy consumption has to decline significantly. Therefore, parallel strategic action is needed to achieve significant reduction in energy demand, a much improved energy distribution infrastructure (grid), and new energy R D. Within this framework, a sus- tainable strategy for generating primary energy is crucial, one which 2 Energy Strategy has good prospects to satisfy a variable mix of energy demand s by flexible response; enhances energy independence; takes into account existing infrastructure and its evolutionary inertia; is largely independent of future technolo- gical breakthroughs; and is acceptable to the public . It follows from these principles that in the pa- lette of energy technologies those primary energy resources should be developed with highest priority that 1. are domestically abundant and economi- cally accessible with current technologies, 2. tie in with existing distribution networks, 3. satisfy a steady base load demand , 4. are safe to produce and use, 5. are adaptable to a variety of fuel demands, 6. minimize the release of pollutants . The following outlines and puts in perspective aspects of a long-term strategy for securing a reliable primary energy economy, realizing modern nuclear and clean-coal technologies, which appear to be the only serious contenders for the task . Task definition and b ackground The basic energy supply task faced by in- dustrialized and developing nations alike is complicated by simultaneous calls for an overall limitation, and even a reduction, in the asso- ciated output of greenhouse gases (GHG). Anthropogenic greenhouse gases, most impor- tantly carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), ni- tric gases (NOx, x 1, 2), and chlorofluorocar- bons (CFC), but also water vapor (H2O), are sus- pected to influence the global climate in an un- desirable way, thereby harming the biosphere and threatening specifically human civilization s. Additional complexity arises from the fact that mobile and stationary energy consuming sec- tors of most economies require different ap- proaches in terms of primary and secondary energy carriers and distribution networks. While stationary energy demands can, in prin-ciple, be satisfied by electricity supplied by the grid, the prevalent transportation fleet largely requires fuel in convenient onboard packages, presently realized by liquid fuels with high energy (caloric) density. To maintain such com- plexity under future variable external conditions requires a highly flexible domestic energy infra- structure based on a diverse set of primary energy sources. In practice, this goal can be rea- lized only in stages. The public has been sensitized to aspects of energy scarcity and environmental problems by rising oil and gas prices, widely publicized sce- narios of impending climatic changes, and evi- dently insufficient urban air quality. But it has largely been left unaware of the technological boundary conditions imposed on a realistic, flexible and sustainable energy strategy and its coupling to the existing economic infrastruc- ture. Well publicized issues associated with fossil or nuclear fuel based energy alternatives in- clude the limited availability of the primary fu- els, the environmental impact and risks in min- ing and transport, and other hazards associated with plant security and operations. Major obje c- tions to these technologies relate to the dispo- sition of toxic and GHG waste produced by fossil fuel burners and of the long-lived radio-toxins generated by nuclear power plants. The media have played a pernicious role in social amplific a- tion of some of these concerns, specifically con- cerning radiation, supporting irrational atti- tudes. The opposite is required, a sober look at the available alternatives. A number of popular science book publica- tions (e.g., Gore, 2006, Morris, 2006) as well as public initiatives and promotions leave the im- pression that the looming energy climate crisis is solvable by harnessing increasing amounts of renewable
__label__energy	On Wind Speed Sensor Conﬁgurations and Altitude Control in Airborne Wind Energy Systems Laurel N. Dunn1;3, Christopher Vermillion2, Fotini K. Chow1, and Scott J. Moura1 Abstract Real-time altitude control of airborne wind energy (A WE) systems can improve performance by allowing turbines to track favorable wind speeds across a range of operating altitudes. The current work explores the performance implica- tions of deploying an A WE system with sensor conﬁgurations that provide different amounts of data to characterize wind speed proﬁles. We examine various control objectives that balance trade-offs between exploration and exploitation, and use a persistence model to generate a probabilistic wind speed forecast to inform control decisions. We assess system performance by comparing power production against baselines such as omniscient control and stationary ﬂight. We show that with few sensors, control strategies that reward exploration are favored. We also show that with comprehensive sensing, the implications of choosing a sub-optimal control strategy decrease. This work informs and motivates the need for future research exploring online learning algorithms to characterize vertical wind speed proﬁles. I. I NTRODUCTION AND MOTIVATION Airborne wind energy (AWE) turbines are an emerging wind generation technology. AWE systems differ from con- ventional turbines in that they are attached to the ground by an adjustable tether, rather than by a ﬁxed tower. This tethered design reduces capital costs and makes it possible to achieve a higher capacity factor. We refer readers to 1 for an in-depth description of airborne wind energy. Information about modern AWE systems can be found at 2 , 3 , 4 . Three characteristics of AWE systems contribute to a high capacity factor compared with conventional turbines. First, AWE systems can reach higher altitude winds, which tend to be stronger and more consistent than surface-level winds 5 . Second, AWE systems can use crosswind ﬂight patterns to increase the apparent wind speed 6 , leading to more power output than would be achieved with stationary ﬂight 7 , 8 . Finally, by adjusting the operating altitude in real-time, AWE systems can vertically track favorable wind speeds in a spatially and temporally varying wind ﬁeld 9 . The current work focuses on understanding how sensor placement impacts the performance of an AWE system with various altitude control schemes. Currently, research on AWE altitude control systems focus on control schemes that ﬁnd the optimal operating altitude 10 and are robust to uncertainty 11 . For example, 11 borrow control objectives from Bayesian optimization to balance exploration and exploitation. More speciﬁcally, these objectives balance the trade off between capitalizing on 1Department of Civil Environmental Engineering, University of Cali- fornia Berkeley 2Department of Mechanical Engineering, North Carolina State University 3Corresponding author: lndunn berkeley.eduknown wind resources (exploitation) and collecting obser- vations at altitudes where wind speed estimates are uncer- tain (exploration), given that wind speed proﬁles are only partially observable and that altitude adjustments are costly to make. Over time, control decisions favoring exploration can reduce uncertainty in wind speed models, though doing so may come at a cost to near-term performance. We refer readers to 12 for information on Bayesian optimization and a more detailed discussion of the trade-off between exploration and exploitation. In the context of AWE system altitude control, this trade off is directly related to uncertainty in wind speed estimates that inform control decisions. A survey of state-of-the-art algorithms for forecasting wind power production is given in 13 . Many of the algorithms cited require large training data sets. Training such algorithms may not be possible for AWE systems which typically rely on sparse data streams collected online. Observations are sparse because wind speeds are recorded by a single sensor that tracks (vertically) with the operating altitude of the turbine. A simpler persistence model is also shown to perform quite well, and is recommended as a benchmark for evaluating the performance of more complex wind forecasting algorithms. Aside from using complex forecasting algorithms, un- certainty in wind speed can be reduced by increasing the spatial coverage of wind speed sensors. For example, if wind speeds were recorded continuously at all altitudes, a simple forecasting model (e.g. the persistence model) may be able to outperform a system that uses a more sophisticated forecasting model trained on single sensor data. This possi- bility motivates a comparative analysis of different sensor conﬁgurations and forecasting methods for AWE altitude control, an issue currently unexplored in the literature. The main contribution of the current work is to develop a framework for evaluating performance gains achievable using different wind speed sensor conﬁgurations. We demonstrate this framework with a case study of a particular wind ﬁeld. We use the control objectives proposed in 11 to determine the optimal altitude trajectory. Questions related to the performance gains from coupling sensor data with different statistical forecasts are reserved for future research. This paper is organized as follows. Section II provides methodological details. Section III outlines the sensor conﬁg- urations. Section IV details the forecasting methods. Section V formulates the altitude control objectives. Section VI describes the comparative analysis benchmarks and metrics. Section VII provides the results and discussion. Finally, Section VIII summarizes the paper s main conclusions.arXiv:2001.07591v1 eess.SY 21 Jan 2020 Fig. 1. Schematic diagram showing wind ﬁeld measurements recorded by each of three sensor conﬁgurations. Right panel shows measurement locations for single, multiple, and remote sensor conﬁgurations. Left panel shows the altitude (y-axis) and magnitude (color scale) of the measurements that would be recorded by each sensor conﬁguration given some trajectory (black line) of altitudes with respect to time (x-axis). II. M ETHODS In this work we simulate the altitude trajectory of a buoyant airborne turbine (pictured in Fig. 1) in a spatially and temporally varying wind ﬁeld. The simulation relies on wind speed data recorded by a 915-MHz wind proﬁler between July 1, 2014 and August 31, 2014 at Cape Henlopen State Park in Lewes, DE 5 . Wind speed data are measured every 50 meters in 30 minute intervals. We use the same spatial and temporal discretization in simulation.
__label__energy	Open Source High Fidelity Modeling of a Type 5 Wind Turbine Drivetrain for Grid Integration1 Tanveer Hussain1, Juan Gallego-Calderon1, S M Shafiul Alam1 1Power and Energy Systems Department, Idaho National Laboratory, 1955 N Fremont Ave, Idaho Falls, ID 83415, United States. E-mail: tanveer.hussain inl.gov Abstract. The increasing integration of renewable energy resources in evolving bulk power system (BPS) is impacting the system inertia. Type-5 wind turbine generation has the potential to behave like a traditional synchronous generator and can help improve system inertia. Hydraulic torque converter (TC) and gearbox with torque limiting feature are integral parts of a Type-5 wind turbine unit. High fidelity model of Type-5 wind turbine including these core components is not openly and widely available for grid integration and transient stability studies. This hinders appropriate assessment of Type-5 wind power plant s contribution to bulk grid resilience. This work develops a TC model based on those generally used in automobile s transmission system. Moreover, the concept of torsional coupling is leveraged to integrate the TC and gearbox system dynamics. The entire integrated model will be open sourced and publicly available for grid integration studies. 1. Introduction The share of variable renewable energy (VRE) sources like wind and solar in the bulk power system are expected to grow significantly in the next two to three decades. For example, the United States (U.S.) has ambitious targets of powering the country with 100 renewables by 2035. In terms of offshore wind, the most immediate objective is to deploy 30 GW of offshore wind by 2030 with a pathway to 110 GW by 2050 1 . This makes wind power one of the fastest growing generation technologies, becoming a major contributor to the energy supply of many countries. Denmark is leading the way with over 40 of the total generation as of 2021, while the European Union (EU) as a whole depends on over 10 of wind penetration. In contrast, land-based wind supplied the U.S. with 9.1 of total electricity generation for the same year 2 . The trend towards 100 renewables will impose several challenges in a synchronous generator based power system. Inverter based resources, like VREs, have traditionally lacked capabilities to provide ancillary services, such as inertia support in the bulk power system and grid stability, in the same way as traditional synchronous generators (e.g., hydropower plants) have contributed. Yet, the vast majority of currently installed wind energy capacity is distributed between Type-3 and Type-4 turbines. In both configurations, the use of power converters is needed to operate the wind turbine in variable speed configuration, to isolate the generator from the grid, and for complying to grid codes 3 . Conversely, a rarely explored configuration, so-called Type-5 wind 1This manuscript is originally submitted to Journal of Physics.arXiv:2305.15216v1 eess.SY 24 May 2023 turbine, is believed to gain traction so that the high penetration of wind energy can support the aforementioned grid services. The impact of variable-speed wind turbines using synchronous generators has been lightly investigated. A major contribution was produced by 4 , where a detailed model of a 2 MW drivetrain composed of a gearbox, hydrodynamic torque converter, and a synchronous generator, was developed in DIgSILENT with the purpose to investigate the impact on grid stability. The study amplified the individual turbine model to a 50 MW wind farm under turbulent wind, and found several advantages on using this configuration: the wind farm was able to provide voltage support and provide stability by increasing the short-circuit level; the concept is able to operate in islanded mode; and, an outlook towards offshore wind farms was provided where they can be connected directly to high-voltage-direct-current (HVDC) systems using conventional thyristor technology. As mentioned above, a torque converter is needed to operate a turbine in synchronous mode. Yet, the publicly available tools and research in the detailed modeling of the drivetrain is sparse. The model developed in 4 is not publicly available and it is the only paper in the literature looking specifically into the dynamics of a Type-5 drivetrain, for example. For decades, the automotive industry has worked in torque converters and the literature in this field is abundant 5, 6, 7 . In this paper, we describe the modeling of the torque converter in the context of wind energy, along with its coupling with a gearbox and synchronous generator. The main objective of this work is to develop an open-source dynamic model of a Type-5 wind turbine for research and development purpose. The following section, describes the torque converter modeling in detail, along with couplers used to integrate other parts of the drivetrain (gearbox and generator). First, the established models of coupler and gearbox are briefly discussed. The introduction to torque converter (TC) dynamic model then follows according to the automobile literature. The automobile-grade TC model is then validated. The scaling of a validated automobile-grade TC to Type-5 wind turbine is then described. Finally, Type-5 TC s initialization and sensitivity analysis is carried out to develop a speed governing system. 2. Modeling Unlike Type-3 and Type-4 wind turbines, the Type-5 configuration uses a fixed-speed synchronous generators that is directly connected to the grid (i.e., no power converter is required). In synchronous operation, the generator speed is dictated by the grid frequency (i.e. 50 Hz in EU, and 60 Hz in the U.S.), instead of the wind turbine variable speed. This is achieved thanks to a torque converter (TC) placed between the gearbox and generator (Figure 1). The purpose of the TC is to convert the variable speed seen in the wind turbine rotor to a fixed speed, thanks to either a hydro-static or hydraulic system that dissipates the torque. The TC has two rotating parts and one static part, i.e., the impeller pump, the turbine, and the guide vane, respectively. The impeller is connected to the high-speed stage of the gearbox whereas the turbine is connected to the generator. The guide vane, which is placed between the impeller and the turbine, controls the returning fluid from the turbine to
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	arXiv:2006.02097v1 eess.SY 3 Jun 20201 Nonlinear Model Predictive Control of Variable Speed Hydropower for Provision of Fast Frequency Reserves Tor Inge Reigstad, Kjetil Uhlen Abstract This paper presents the development of a non- linear model predictive controller (MPC) for controlling v ariable speed hydropower (VSHP) plants. The MPC coordinates the turbine controller with the virtual synchronous generator (VSG) control of the power electronics converter to optimize the p lant s performance. The main objective is to deliver a fast power response to frequency deviations by utilizing the kinetic e nergy of the turbine and generator. This is made possible by allowi ng the turbine rotational speed to deviate temporarily from it s optimal speed. In addition, the efﬁciency should be maximiz ed while keeping the electric and hydraulic variables within t heir constraints. The simulation results show that the proposed MPC is also able to damp power oscillations in the grid, reduce wa ter hammering in the penstock and improve the future estimation of turbine head, turbine power and turbine ﬂow. This ensures th at the turbine head does not exceed its limits and that the overs hoot in the turbine speed after a disturbance is reduced. Besides , the VSG converter control enables a fast power response by utili zing the rotational energy of the turbine and generator. Thereby , the VSHP can provide a signiﬁcant amount of fast frequency reser ves (FFR) to the grid. Index Terms Fast frequency response, frequency control, model predictive control, variable speed hydropower, virt ual synchronous generator I. I NTRODUCTION HYDROPOWER is an important contributor in providing power system ﬂexibility and will remain a signiﬁcant source of large-scale energy storage in the future 1 . The share of variable renewable energy, such as wind and solar power, is increasing. Thus, more ﬂexible generation and de- mand are required to control the balance of the grid and to maintain power system security. Variable speed operation o f hydropower plants has the potential to provide faster contr ol of active and reactive power than conventional hydropower plants. This is achieved by applying frequency converter technology and implementation of virtual inertia (VI) cont rol by utilizing the kinetic energy stored in the turbine and gen - erator. The hypothesis is that the variable speed hydropowe r (VSHP) can offer additional ancillary services, contribut ing to improved frequency control and maintaining the grid stabil ity, allowing for higher penetration of variable renewables in t he grid. A robust and well-functioning control system needs This work was supported by the Research Council of Norway und er Grant 257588 and by the Norwegian Research Centre for Hydropower T echnology (HydroCen). T.I. Reigstad and K. Uhlen are with the Department for Electr ic Power Engi- neering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (N TNU), NO-7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: tor.inge.reigstad ntnu.no, kj etil.uhlen ntnu.no)to be developed to coordinate the control of the hydraulic system and the converter control. The control system must optimize the operation of the power plant while considering the constraints in the electric and the hydraulic systems to maximize the potential of the kinetic energy. This paper aims to utilize nonlinear model predictive contr ol (MPC) for controlling a VSHP plant. The main goal is to optimize the frequency support capabilities of the power pl ant while keeping the electric and hydraulic variables within t heir limits. One of the beneﬁts by variable speed hydropower plan t is that the kinetic energy of the turbine and generator can be utilized immediately to provide fast frequency reserves (F FR) to stabilize the grid. To maximize the provision of frequenc y support services and the efﬁciency of the system, the contro l of the turbine should be as fast as possible without exceeding t he constraints given by the hydraulic system. A conventional c on- trol system with PID-controllers will become slow because i t has to be tuned cautiously to avoid exceeding these constrai nts and thereby causing damage to the system. Therefore, an advanced control system is developed to optimize the system with the given constraints. A virtual synchronous generato r (VSG) controls the VSHP output power to reduce frequency deviation while the MPC coordinates the VSG control and the control of the turbine, as shown in Figure 1. The MPC also assures that both the electrical and hydraulic constraints are fulﬁlled. At the same time, the MPC limits the deviation of the turbine rotational speed to maximize the efﬁciency of th e system. The MPC of the proposed control scheme calculates and supplies the optimal VSHP output power reference P gto the VSG and guide vane opening reference g to the turbine, as indicated in Figure 2. As the VSG controls the VSHP output powerPgwith the frequency fas input, there is a direct relationship between these variables, as in a conventional hydropower plant. However, due to the converter technology , the turbine rotational speed does not need to follow the frequency. Thereby, the VSHP output power can be controlled quicker by utilizing the rotational energy of the turbine an d generator. The ancillary service capabilities are therefo re no longer limited by the slow governor, as in a conventional hydropower plant. This opens new possibilities such as fast er frequency control and other grid ancillary services, but it also necessitates proper co-ordination of the controls. The nonlinear MPC controller is based on the VSHP models presented in 4 and 3 , and is combined with the VSG control approach presented in 2 . The controller is a furth er 2 qhr Head race tunnel Penstock q TurbReser- voirSurge tank hst1 h Gen Pm ωœMPC (1)-(3) VSG (8), 2 P g i dMHE (20)-(22)ˆx y Kundur two-area system 3 ig,d,ig,q vg,d,vg,qPpb g Fig. 1: VSHP plant layout with equations for modelling and co ntrol structure MPCVSGP g Hydraulic systemg GridPg ConvertersPg SGPe MHEPm h,hst,qωf ˆxfSystem Fig. 2: Control layout of VSHP plant with MPC and MHE development of the linear MPC for VSHP presented in 5 . The
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Beyond costs: Mapping Norwegian youth preferences for a more inclusive energy transition Muhammad Shahzad Javed 1, , Karin Fossheim 2 , Paola Velasco-Herrej ón 1 , Nikolai Elias Koop 3 , Matylda N. Guzik 1 , Charles Dana Samuelson 2 , Beate Seibt 2 , Marianne Zeyringer 1 1 Department of Technology Systems, University of Oslo, Norway . 2 Department of Psychology , University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway . 3 Department of Mathematics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway . Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): m.s.javed its.uio.no Abstract Environmental movements and climate strikes have made it apparent that youth feel excluded from the ongoing energy transformation process, highlighting the crucial need for their engagement to achieve a socially accepted transition. This interdisciplinary study focuses on the Norwegian electricity system and involves conducting educational workshops with high school students aged 15 to 16 to ascertain their perspectives and socio-techno-economic preferences towards a net-zero energy system. The workshops were structured into three segments, starting with the dissemination of common knowledge about energy and climate, followed by segments of interactive activities designed to explore and develop a shared understanding of various aspects of energy transition. Three rounds of questionnaires, administered at distinct time intervals, assessed changes in students attitudes and socio-techno-economic preferences. Our findings show that 33 of pupils favored exclusively offshore wind as a main energy source, while 35 opted to combine it with solar energy, indicating that over 68 of participants viewed offshore wind as a favorable solution. Although 32 supported some form of land-based wind turbines, there was strong 1 disagreement about having wind parks in agricultural, forested, and residential areas. Preferences also exhibited considerable regional variation; solar installations were favored in southern and southeastern Norway , while wind farms were suggested for central and northern regions. Pupils emphasized energy independence, showed reluctance towards demand response (i.e., adjusting energy use), prioritized reducing carbon emissions and preserving biodiversity over minimizing electricity costs. Despite cost-minimization being at the core of most existing and broadly utilized energy system models, youth deemed it the least important factor , highlighting a disconnect between traditional modeling priorities and their perspectives. Thus, integrating the perspectives of young people opens space for energy modelers to explore uncertainties related to technological adoption by generating socially relevant scenarios. Keywords: Climate change, Renewable energy, Youth participation, Social acceptance, Energy system models 1. Introduction Energy system models are widely used to advise policymakers and planners on the best strategies for decarbonizing the energy system. Designing possible future scenarios is a common approach to outline the different pathways of how the energy system could be developed, based on varying assumptions about technology and economics. Subsequently , these scenarios shape the energy system analysis conducted by researchers and energy system modelers, influencing the related policy implications. Nevertheless, despite the employment of various methodological approaches, the challenge of inherent subjectivity in scenario-based analysis persists. Most of the studies also fail to engage relevant stakeholders in the process of envisioning net-zero energy systems 1 3 . 2 While efforts are underway to engage the various stakeholders under the umbrella of participatory energy system modeling (ESM), there are little to no studies that engage the vulnerable and marginalized groups, such as young people, who are likely to be impacted most by climate change 3 5 . Moreover , the growing body of participatory ESM literature highlights discrepancies between stakeholders perceptions and perspectives and those reflected in traditional techno-economic modeling scenarios 6 11 . Although participatory modeling is gaining attention, and policies emer ging based on the participatory practices are more likely to be implementable, challenges remain. These challenges include the need to provide information that is both understandable and relevant to participants, design effective stakeholders engagement methodologies, and involve stakeholders from diverse background to ensure comprehensive input. Knowledge gaps among participants can hinder effective communication and understanding, potentially compromising the quality of the insights gathered. Addressing these challenges is crucial to maximise the effectiveness of participatory processes 12 . Additionally , participatory studies that meaningfully engage the public, especially youth by enhancing climate change knowledge, empowering participants, and collecting socio-techno-economic preferences to facilitate a more inclusive energy transition remain rare 13 . Furthermore, most participatory modeling studies rely on social science or online survey data to incorporate stakeholders perspectives. This reliance raises concerns about the validity of the obtained data, primarily due to the lack of prior knowledge necessary to accurately respond to these surveys 14 . Evidence suggests psychological distress about climate change is broadly present among young people, there remains a gap in participatory research regarding the direct inclusion of youth and account their informed choices about green energy transition, i.e., renewable energy technology deployment scenarios. Though participatory research exploring ways to integrate emer ging social aspects such as acceptance 15 , preference 16 , ownership 3 17,18 , and willingness-to-pay 19 , the often considered stakeholders are experts from fields like energy environment 20 , health 21 , finance 22 , tourism 23 , education 24 , and construction 25 . Moreover , the average number of stakeholders in such studies ranges from 20 to 25, which does not necessarily reflect the opinions of general public 3,20,26 . While the general public featured in less than 20 of reported participatory studies 3 , the participants average age tends to be around forty years 26 28 . Notable exceptions include Holzer et al., who conducted educational workshops with school students (aged 10 to 18) to create Swiss electricity supply scenarios for 2035 6 . The results revealed that while pupils opted for high shares of renewable energy technologies (RET), their views did not necessarily align with ambitious scenarios proposed by energy experts, who are often the stakeholders reflected in participatory studies. To the best of the author s knowledge, no study has engaged the Norwegian youth in the energy transformation debate to enhance their understanding and assess their choices for future energy systems. Since 2019, young people have been actively involved in matters related to the green energy
__label__energy	Navigating Out-of-Distribution Electricity Load Forecasting during COVID-19: Benchmarking energy load forecasting models without and with continual learning Arian Prabowo arian.prabowo unsw.edu.au University of New South Wales Sydney, AustraliaKaixuan Chen kaixuan.chen unsw.edu.au University of New South Wales Sydney, AustraliaHao Xue hao.xue1 unsw.edu.au University of New South Wales Sydney, Australia Subbu Sethuvenkatraman subbu.sethuvenkatraman csiro.au CSIRO Newcastle, AustraliaFlora D. Salim flora.salim unsw.edu.au University of New South Wales Sydney, Australia Figure 1: This figure illustrates the impact of the first COVID-19 lockdown (indicated by the red region) on the electricity load of a building complex located in Melbourne s Central Business District (top graph). Concurrently, it presents the effect on the average human mobility throughout the city, as measured by pedestrian count (bottom graph). The diagram clearly shows significant shifts in distributions during the lockdown, which do not fully revert to their pre-lockdown state even after restrictions are lifted. ABSTRACT In traditional deep learning algorithms, one of the key assumptions is that the data distribution remains constant during both training and deployment. However, this assumption becomes problematic when faced with Out-of-Distribution periods, such as the COVID- 19 lockdowns, where the data distribution significantly deviates from what the model has seen during training. This paper employs a two-fold strategy: utilizing continual learning techniques to up- date models with new data and harnessing human mobility data collected from privacy-preserving pedestrian counters located out- side buildings. In contrast to online learning, which suffers from Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and or a fee. Request permissions from permissions acm.org. BuildSys 23, November 15 16, 2023, Istanbul, Turkey 2023 Copyright held by the owner author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0230-3 23 11. . . 15.00 https: doi.org 10.1145 3600100.3623726 catastrophic forgetting as newly acquired knowledge often erases prior information, continual learning offers a holistic approach by preserving past insights while integrating new data. This re- search applies FSNet, a powerful continual learning algorithm, to real-world data from 13 building complexes in Melbourne, Aus- tralia, a city which had the second longest total lockdown duration globally during the pandemic. Results underscore the crucial role of continual learning in accurate energy forecasting, particularly during Out-of-Distribution periods. Secondary data such as mo- bility and temperature provided ancillary support to the primary forecasting model. More importantly, while traditional methods struggled to adapt during lockdowns, models featuring at least online learning demonstrated resilience, with lockdown periods posing fewer challenges once armed with adaptive learning tech- niques. This study contributes valuable methodologies and insights to the ongoing effort to improve energy load forecasting during future Out-of-Distribution periods.arXiv:2309.04296v3 cs.LG 4 Oct 2023 BuildSys 23, November 15 16, 2023, Istanbul, Turkey Prabowo et al. CCS CONCEPTS Computing methodologies Online learning settings ;Neu- ral networks ; Applied computing Forecasting . KEYWORDS timeseries forecasting, out-of-distribution, continual learning, bench- marking, energy use, electricity use ACM Reference Format: Arian Prabowo, Kaixuan Chen, Hao Xue, Subbu Sethuvenkatraman, and Flora D. Salim. 2023. Navigating Out-of-Distribution Electricity Load Forecasting during COVID-19: Benchmarking energy load forecasting models without and with continual learning . In The 10th ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient Buildings, Cities, and Transportation (BuildSys 23), November 15 16, 2023, Istanbul, Turkey. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https: doi.org 10.1145 3600100.3623726 1 INTRODUCTION Buildings play a significant role in energy consumption, making accurate electricity load forecasting essential for effective energy management and maintaining a balance in power grids. However, accurate forecasting is a challenging task since the building energy usage is primarily influenced by behaviours or activities of the occupants that are highly dynamic and heterogeneous 11 . This can be exacerbated during Out-of-Distribution periods, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns, presenting unique challenges due to changes in occupancy patterns and energy usage behavior. During these anomalous periods, we show that traditional machine learning and deep learning methods struggle to adapt, highlighting the need for different approaches that can effectively capture and account for shifting dynamics. 1.1 Online and Continual Learning In conventional timeseries forecasting using machine learning, mod- els are trained on a fixed training dataset and stop learning once deployed. Consequently, these models cannot adapt to changes in underlying data patterns during deployment. Online Learning (OL) has emerged as a promising solution to this challenge, as it enables building managers to adapt to changes in occupancy patterns and adjust energy usage accordingly. With OL, models can be updated incrementally with each new data point, allowing them to learn and adapt in real-time 20 . Furthermore, a subset of OL method called continual learning offers an even more powerful solution by addressing the issue of catastrophic forgetting 10,25 . These methods allow models to retain previously learned information while accommodating new data, preventing the loss of valuable insights and improving generalization in out-of-distribution scenar- ios. With continual learning technique, energy forecasting models can achieve robustness, adaptability, and accuracy, making them well-suited for handling the challenges posed by spatiotemporal data with evolving distributions. 1.2 Human Mobility as a Proxy to Occupancy Behaviour Moreover, accurately forecasting buildings electricity load is chal- lenging due to the dynamic and diverse nature of occupant behav- iors, which are often not directly observable. Occupancy data iscrucial 4,21 but difficult to obtain due to privacy concerns, the absence of occupancy sensors in legacy buildings, high sensor instal- lation costs, and issues related to sensor accuracy. Researchers have explored various proxy information sources for occupancy sensing, such as Google search trends 15 , positional records from Twit- ter 28 , Call Details Recore 8 , Wi-Fi-derived occupancy 29 , Blue-
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	2019. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2019.05.126. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 1 Repurposing an Energy System Optimization Model for Seasonal Power Generation Planning A.R. de Queiroza,b, D. Mulcahyc, A. Sankarasubramanianb, J.P. Deaned, G. Mahinthakumarb, N. Luc, J.F. DeCarolisb a Department of Decision Sciences, School of Business NC Central University 1801 Fayetteville Rd Durham, NC 27707 Email: adequeiroz nccu.edu b Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering NC State University 2501 Stinson Drive Box 7908 Raleigh, NC 27695 Emails: arqueiroz ncsu.edu, jdecarolis ncsu.edu, sankar_arumugam ncsu.edu, gmkumar ncsu.edu c Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering NC State University 890 Oval Drive Raleigh, NC 27606 Emails: djmulcah ncsu.edu, nlu2 ncsu.edu d Energy Policy and Modelling Group University College Cork College Road, Cork T12 K8AF Email: Jp.Deane ucc.ie Abstract Seasonal climate variations affect electricity demand, which in turn affects month-to-month electricity planning and operations. Electricity system planning at the monthly timescale can be improved by adapting climate forecasts to estimate electricity demand and utilizing energy models to estimate monthly electricity generation and associated operational costs. The objective of this paper is to develop and test a computationally efficient model that can support seasonal planning while preserving key aspects of system operation over hourly and daily timeframes. To do so, an energy system optimization model is repurposed for seasonal planning using features drawn from a unit commitment model. Different scenarios utilizing a well-known test system are used to evaluate the errors associated with both the repurposed energy system model and an imperfect load forecast. The results show that the energy system optimization model using an imperfect load forecast produces differences in monthly cost and generation levels that are less than 2 compared with a unit commitment model using a perfect load forecast. The enhanced energy system optimization model can be solved approximately 100 times faster than the unit commitment model, making it a suitable tool for future work aimed at evaluating seasonal electricity generation and demand under uncertainty. Keywords: Power generation planning, Unit commitment, Energy system optimization, Seasonal demand forecasts, Mathematical programming 2019. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2019.05.126. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 2 1. INTRODUCTION Power systems planning has generally focused on two different functions operations and capacity expansion which require models that operate at fundamentally different timescales. Unit commitment models (UCMs) are employed for power system operations by considering the hour-by-hour commitment and dispatch of generating units (Wood and Wollenberg, 2012). UCMs assume a time horizon that typically ranges from one day to one week. By contrast, energy system optimization models (ESOMs) are used for capacity expansion planning by considering changes in installed capacity and utilization over future decades. In between these time scales daily and decadal an emerging timescale of interest is seasonal (Zhou et al., 2018). Seasonal modeling can potentially lower the cost of electricity supply through improved planning related to seasonal generation and transmission system forced and unforced outages, emissions allowances in coming months, forward purchases of fuel reserves (e.g., coal stock piles), demand response, and hydroelectric releases. Renewable resource availability (e.g., wind, solar insolation, water inflow) is an increasingly important determinant of system dispatch costs (Perez-Arriaga and Battle, 2012), and its temporal variability affects seasonal planning. Electricity demand also exhibits temporal variability at the seasonal scale due to varying temperatures (e.g., Apadula et al., 2012). At seasonal to interannual time scales, energy demand primarily depends on temperature and is lowest if the mean daily temperature ranges from 60 F-70 F (Changnon et al., 1995). Residential and commercial demands are quite temperature sensitive and significant deviations in mean daily temperatures in a given season can translate into 5-10 fluctuations in total electricity demand, which can severely stress the power grid (Changnon et al., 1995). Thus, both supply and demand of power systems are significantly affected by seasonal variations in climate, which could be predicted in advance based on known climatic and land-surface conditions influencing the region (Oludhe et al., 2013). Recent advances in monthly-to-seasonal climate predictions show that the skill in predicting both precipitation (Li et al., 2008) and temperature could be utilized to develop hydro inflow and electricity demand forecasts. For example, Changnon and Kunkel (1999) describe the use of climate data and predictions to inform agriculture and water resources management in several applications. This improved monthly-to-seasonal information is also crucial to advise planning and operations in power systems problems such as the hydro-thermal coordination (de Queiroz, 2016). However, there are unavoidable forecast errors in any model, and as a result, real-life power system operations do not precisely match the plan (Jiang et al., 2018). There are different methods for creating electricity demand forecasts based on quantitative techniques (e.g., semi-parametric additive models, autoregressive and moving average models, and exponential smoothing models) and artificial intelligence 2019. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2019.05.126. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 3 techniques (e.g., artificial neural networks, fuzzy regression models and support vector machines). While beyond the scope of this paper, Hong and Fan (2016) review the benefits and drawbacks of these methods. Power system planning at a monthly to seasonal timescale requires electricity demand forecasts, which depend on climate forecasts. But planning at this time scale requires a power system model that incorporates features of both UCMs and ESOMs. For instance, monthly generation levels can be forecast with UCMs by aggregating hourly dispatch decisions. However, the mixed integer linear programing (MILP) formulation associated with UCMs can make them computationally intractable over the monthly to seasonal time scale, especially when embedding uncertainty within the model formulation (Takriti et al., 1996). By contrast, ESOMs usually have a linear formulation and are computationally tractable but have a coarse grain temporal resolution that limits the accuracy of dispatch decisions, often ignoring the detailed congestion and operational constraints that are explicitly incorporated in UCMs. Detailed consideration of short-term supply and demand is not the core focus of ESOMs (Welsch
__label__energy	1 An Assessment of the UK Government s Clean Energy Strategy for the Year 2030 by Anthony D. Stephens1 and David R. Walwyn2 Abstract In 2024, the UK Government made two striking announcements on its plans to decarbonise the country s energy system. Firstly, it pledged 21.7 Bn to establish carbon capture and storage hubs on Teesside and Merseyside (Gov.UK, 2024) , and secondly it released the Clean Power 2030 Action Plan (UK Government, 2024) . The latter outlines a spend of 40 Bn pa for 6 years, a total of 240 Bn, the aim being to decarbonise the electricity system by 2030. The two projects derive from the government s overall ambitions for the UK energy system in 2030, as set out in its 2024 election manifesto (Labour Party, 2024) . This paper questions the validity of both plans, arguing that they do not take adequate account of the consequences of the highly variable nature of wind and solar generations. Using dynamic models of future UK electricity systems which are designed to tak e account of these variabilities, it is shown that the Clean Power 2030 Action Plan overestimates the ability of wind and solar generations to decarbonise the electricity system as they increase in size relative to the demand of the electricity system. The Action Plan proposes an increase in wind generation from the current level of around 10 GW to around 30 GW, which the dynamic models suggest would result in 26 million tonnes per annum (Mtes pa ) of carbon dioxide emissions rather than the 5.2 Mtes pa proposed by the Clean Power 2030 Action Plan. More importantly, the dynamic models show that most of the achievable decarbonisation is the result of increasing wind generation from the current level of around 10 GW to around 20 GW. Increasing wind generation to only 20 GW, rather than to 30 GW as proposed in the Action Plan, should halve the proposed cost, a saving of perhaps 120 Bn, with little disbenefit in terms of reduced decarbonisation. Dynamic modelling of the wind lull which occurred in January 2017 suggested that, if the wind lull were repeated in 2030, there would be an energy deficit of 4000 GWh. This far exceeds any energy storage which might be envisaged. Also, the wind lull of January 2017 was of only nine days duration, while in previous years there have been wind lulls of much longer duration (Stephens and Walwyn, 2024a) . The UK s gas storage capacity of 7.5 winter days looks hopeless inadequate in comparison with the storage capacities deemed necessary by its continental neighbours. As Centrica points out (Centrica Media Centre, 2024) , having low gas storage capacity results in gas having to be purchased when it is in short supply and expensive. Centrica s proposal to increase its Rough storage capacity should not only improve energy security but also reduce the cost of both gas and el ectricity to customers. Concern is expressed that a consequence of the Climate Change Act of 2008 requiring the UK to meet arbitrary decarbonisation targets is leading government advisors to propose several unproven and therefore highly risky technological solutions. It is suggested that, as was the case prior to the privatisation of the electricity system in 1990, only fully proven technologies should be included in future investment proposals. 1 Correspondence to tonystephensgigg gmail.com 2 Graduate School of Technology Management, University of Pretoria , South Africa 2 1. Introduction The most complete source of information about the government s energy strategy for 2030 appears in its 2024 election manifesto (Labour Party, 2024) , reproduced in Figure 1. The Clean Power Action Plan covers the first four pledges, and the carbon capture and storage pledge appears in pledge 6. Other pledges and the two authorised projects will be discussed later. Figure 1. Extract from the government s 2024 election manifesto showing its energy ambitions for 2030 2. Clean Power 2030 Action Plan UK decarbonisation progress is judged by comparing territorial carbon dioxide emissions with those in 1990. Table 2 shows that emissions in 1990 were then about 600 million metric tonnes per annum (Mtes pa), mainly from electricity supply, industry, domesti c transport and residential heating. The aim of the Clean Power 2030 Action Plan is to reduce emissions from electricity supply to close to zero in 2030. When the government published its Action Plan in December 2024 it emphasised that it was on the inde pendent advice of the National Energy System Operator, NESO. It is therefore to NESO s Clean Power 2030 publication of November 2024 (NESO, 2024) that we must turn for an understanding of the government s Action Plan. Table 1. UK carbon dioxide territorial emissions by major sector; 1990 and 2022 Sector Emissions (Mtes pa) Year 1990 2022 Electricity Supply 204 55 Industry 156 57 Domestic Transport 129 113 Buildings and Product Uses 108 83 Total 811 407 Source: Office for National Statistics (2024b) 2.1 NESO s Clean Power 2030 assumptions and predictions The main assumptions of NESO s Clean Power 2030 publication (NESO, 2024) were : an annual electrical demand of 287 TWh (equivalent to wind generation of 29.95 GW) nuclear generation of 3.5 GW 3 77.9 GW p3 of wind capacity (50.6 GW p offshore and 27.3 GW p onshore) solar capacity of 47.3 GW . These assumptions led NESO to advise the government that in 2030 there would be : 5.2 Mtes pa of carbon dioxide emissions 5.48 GW of excess generation and 35 GW of unabated gas turbine generation. 2.2 Modelling the electricity system anticipated in 2030 using real time historic records The Appendix describes two different methods of modelling future UK electricity systems by suitably scaling real time records of wind and solar generations for the year 2017 available on the internet (Gridwatch, 2025) . The model input variables are : Hdrm (electrical demand less nuclear generation) wm, multiple of wind generation of 6.045 GW in 2017 sm, multiple of solar generation of 1.16 GW
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 ACS Nano 2018, 12, 7009 7017 www.acsnano.org Metasurfaces Leveraging Solar Energy for Icephobicity Efstratios Mitridis, Thomas M. Schutzius , Alba Sicher, Claudio U. Hail, Hadi Eghlidi , and Dimos Poulikakos Laboratory of Thermodynamics in Emerging Technologies, Department of Mechanical and Pro- cess Engineering, ETH Zurich, Sonneggstrasse 3, CH -8092 Zurich, Switzerland. Keywords: icephobicity, a nti-icing, defrosting , renewable energy, plasmonic metasurface, met- amaterial Received: April 11, 2018 Accepted: June 22, 2018 Published: June 22, 2018 DOI: 10.1021 acsnano.8b02719 2 Abstract Inhibiting ice accumulation on surfaces is an energy -intensive task and is of significant im- portance in nature and technology where it has found applications in windshields, automobiles, aviation, renewable energy generation, and infrastructure. Existing methods rely on on- site elec- trical heat generation, chemicals, or mechani cal removal, with drawbacks ranging from financial costs to disruptive technical interventions and environmental incompatibility. Here we focus on applications where surface transparency is desirable and propose metasurfaces with embedded plasmonically enh anced light absorption heating, using ultra -thin hybrid metal dielectric coat- ings, as a passive, viable approach for de-icing and anti -icing, in which the sole heat source is renewable solar energy. The balancing of transparency and absorption is achieved with rationally nano- engineered coating s consisting of gold nanoparticle inclusions in a dielectric (titanium diox- ide), concentrat ing broadband absorbed solar energy into a small volume . This causes a 10 C temperature increase wit h respect to ambient at the air solid interface, where ice is most likely to form, delaying freezing, reducing ice adhesion, when it occurs , to negligible levels (de -icing) and inhibiting frost formation (anti- icing) . Our results illustrate an effective un explored pathway to- ward s environmentally compatible, solar -energy -driven icephobicity, enabled by respectively tailored plasmonic metasurfaces , with the ability to design the balance of transparency and light absorption. 3 Icing is very common in nature and technology, and when not controlled or alleviated, it can have very negative consequences in a broad range of applications including automobiles,1 aviation,2 power distribution,3 shipping,4 road transportation networks ,5 building s,6 wind energy generators7 and photovoltaics.8 The energy requirements , cost and environmental impact of de - icing are surprising ly high. A very common example from everyday life is automobile windshield defrosting by means of hot air, that mandates the function of the engine for up to 30 min in cold climates.9 It is also estimated that the global aircraft de -icing market will be worth 1.30 billion by 2020,10 while the ice protection systems are expected to amount for 10.17 billion by 2021.11 A degree of optical transparency is a crucial property in many of these applications ,1,2,6,8 achieved by often multifunctional windshields and windows, constituting indispensable architectural elements of commercial and residential buildings.12,13 Several passive anti -icing strategies , based on scientifically nano -engineered surfaces ,14,15 have been developed since the late 1990s, includ- ing hierarchical superhydrophobic surfaces,16 22 lubricant infused surfaces,23 and liquid infused polymers.24 Their icephobic properties are defined by the nu cleation delay, droplet contact time reduction, reduced ice adhesion and defrosting time .16 24 While promising and highly desirable, passive approaches are to date complementary to active systems such as resistive heaters7 and mechanical scraping.4 Such active systems, however, are energy intensive (requiring electricity ),25 their operation is intrusive, have limited optical transparency and working tempera- ture,15,26 or require replenishment.15,23 What is less explored is harvesting the potential of ubiqui- tous sunlight to impart icephobicity, here through specifically tailored plasmonic metasurfaces. We show that by using rationally nano -engineered ultra-thin hybrid plasmonic metasur- faces , one can concentrate naturally occurring solar energy into a small vol ume, causing a greater than 10 C temperature increase with respect to ambient at the air solid interface, where ice is most likely to form, delaying freezing, reducing ice adhesion to negligible levels (de -icing) and 4 inhibiting fro st formation (anti- icing). Significant thermal responses can be achieved with trans- parent metasurfaces , paving the way to a wide range of applications where the benefit of icing resistance must be weighed again st loss of transparency . We realize this by en gineering an array of nanoscale noble metal particles embedded in a dielectric matrix an approach that is shown to be capable of tuning absorption and transparency in a systematic way based on film thickness and is well- suited for a fundamental study on industrially and commercially relevant substrates ( e.g., glass, plastic), for a total film thickness in the sub -micron regime, ensuring maximum tempera- ture boost. The use of plasmonics in metal dielectr ic composites in applications such as water desalinati on,27 photovoltaics ,28 solar water heating29 and photochemistry28,30 were explored be- fore. Plasmon resonances in metallic nanostructures can be damped radiatively (photon re - emission) or non- radiatively via Landau damping,31 resulting in rapid localized he ating of the nanoparticles.32 34 Here, exploiting the Landau damping of hot electrons32 in deeply sub- wavelength gold particles, and incorporating them in rationally designed metal- dielectric nano- composite metasurfaces , we show that a broadband absorption of solar energy, with adjustable level s of absorption and transparency, can be achieved within sub- wavelength films , confined in the surface. We demonstrate that such heating can be considerable and under harsh icing condi-tions it can significantly delay f rost formation (anti- icing) and lead to the swift removal of frozen ice blocks from the surface (de- icing) for several freezing cycles. This is a straightforward ap- proach that leverages naturally occurring sunlight to achieve an impressive anti- icing and d e- icing performance that does not rely on chemicals, mechanical action or electricity, translating into environmental and cost savings and operational facility. Results and Discussion We designed and fabricated plasmonic metasurfaces consisting of closely -packed, deeply 5 sub-wavelength metal particles , in a dielectric matrix.35,36 For the metal and dielectric, we chose gold (Au) and titanium dioxide (TiO 2), respectively. Nanoscopic gold particles are very effective absorbers of sunlight
__label__energy	The Sensitivity of Power System Expansion Models Bruno U. Schyskaa,, Alexander Kiesb, Markus Schlottb, Lueder von Bremena,1, Wided Medjroubia aDLR Institute of Networked Energy Systems, Oldenburg, Germany bFrankfurt Institute of Advanced Studies, Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany cForWind Center for Wind Energy Research, Carl-von-Ossietzky-University, Oldenburg, Germany Abstract Power system expansion models are a widely used tool for planning power systems, especially considering the integration of large shares of renewable resources. The backbone of these models is an optimization problem, which depends on a number of economic and technical parameters. Although these parameters contain signi cant uncertainties, the sensitivity of power system models to these uncertainties is barely investigated. In this work, we introduce a novel method to quantify the sensitivity of power system models to di erent model parameters based on measuring the additional cost arising from misallocating generation capacities. The value of this method is proven by three prominent test cases: the de nition of capital cost, di erent weather periods and di erent spatial and temporal resolutions. We nd that the model is most sensitive to the temporal resolution. Fur- thermore, we explain why the spatial resolution is of minor importance and why the underlying weather data should be chosen carefully. Keywords: Energy system analysis, Stochastic optimization, System planning uncertainty, Renewable energy, Modeling to generate alternatives 1. Introduction In order to address the issue of climate change and sustainability, energy systems around the world are undergoing major transitions. In this context, large shares of weather-dependent power sources, such as solar photovoltaics (PV) and wind power, need to be integrated into existing systems. This is a challenging task, solutions proposed by literature are manifold 1, 2 . They Preprint submitted to July 21, 2020arXiv:2007.09956v1 physics.soc-ph 20 Jul 2020 include the large-scale integration of storage technologies 3, 4 , the extension of the transmission grid 5, 6 , the overinstallation of renewable capacities 7 or optimising the mix of di erent renewable generation sources, e.g. solar and hydro power 8 , wind power and solar PV 9 or wind power and concentrated solar power 10 . Options to modify the demand side have for instance been investigated by Palensky and Dietrich 11 and Zerrahn and Schill 12 . Kies et al. 13 found that demand-side management can balance generation-side uctuations for a renewable share of up to 65 in Europe. Hirth and M uller 14 and Chat- topadhyay et al. 15 proposed to deploy system-friendly wind turbines or PV modules, respectively, that are designed to resemble load patterns. Fur- thermore, vehicle-to-grid technologies have been proven to be useful for the system integration of renewables 16 . It is common understanding that the coupling of the sectors electricity, heat and transportation might reduce costs and hence support the power system transition. The synergies between these sectors have been investigated by Brown et al. 17 . Many of these solutions are the result of studies using so-called power sys- tem expansion models (PSEM). Although most PSEM aim at nding optimal solutions for power system design, they may signi cantly vary in structure and in scope. For a list of models see for instance the Open Energy Platform (https: openenergy-platform.org factsheets models ). Over the last years, PSEM have become progressively more complex. They include more and more aspects of power system in an increasing level of detail. Running these models is an increasingly challenging and expen- sive task. Consequently, a number of complexity reduction techniques has been proposed in the literature 18 . They range from simple averaging and clustering techniques to reduce the temporal and spatial resolution to more complex methods to be able to model storage units with inconsistent time series. However, without being able to compute a representative reference, their skill with respect to real world examples can hardly be quanti ed. Furthermore, PSEM depend on a number of uncertain parameters. As- sumptions made for costs or the availability of weather-dependent generation sources as well as the reduction of the model resolution to make it tractable introduce uncertainty 19, 20, 21 . This uncertainty clearly e ects the in- terpretation of the simulation results. Recently, Nacken et al. 22 applied a method called modelling to generate alternatives (MGA) to a future Ger- man energy supply and showed that it produces a number of signi cantly di erent energy scenarios. MGA bases on changing the PSEM structure by 2 setting the cost-optimal objective value plus some slack as a new constraint and exploring the resulting solution space 23, 24, 25 . Neumann und Brown 26 used a similar method to explore the near-optimal solution space of a cost-optimised European power system. They observed a high variance in the deployment of individual components near the optimal solution. Based on a global sensitivity analysis , Moret et al. 27 found that the uncertainty of economic parameters has the highest in uence on the results of an en- ergy model. Similarly, Shirizadeh et al. 28 investigated the robustness of a fully renewable power system model of France to uncertainties in future cost of generation technologies. They found that, although the optimal genera- tion mix clearly depends on the respective cost for the di erent technologies, overall system costs are relatively insensitive. For an overview of methods applied in the context of uncertainty in power system modeling see Yue et al. 29 . In addition, power infrastructure is planned decades in advance. During these decades, boundary conditions may considerably change due to climate change and climate variability. The e ect of climate change on renewable power systems is a recent eld of research. Schlott et al. 30 found that it is likely that climate change will increase the share of solar PV in a cost- optimal European power system. According to Weber et al. 31 a climate change induced increase in the seasonal variability of wind speed and a higher likelihood for periods of low wind speeds will lead to signi cantly higher needs for backup energy and storage in large parts of Europe. This
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Cost sensitivity of optimal sector-coupled district heating production systems Magnus Dahla,b, Adam Brunb, Gorm B. Andresena aDepartment of Engineering, Aarhus University, Inge Lehmanns Gade 10, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark bAﬀaldVarme Aarhus, Municipality of Aarhus, Bautavej 1, 8210 Aarhus V, Denmark Abstract Goals to reduce carbon emissions and changing electricity prices due to increasing penetrations of wind power generation aﬀect the planning and operation of district heating production systems. Through extensive multivariate sensitivity analysis, this study estimates the robustness of future cost-optimal heat production systems under changing electricity prices, fuelcostandinvestmentcost. Optimalproductioncapacitiesareinstalledchoosingfromarangeofwell-established production and storage technologies including boilers, combined heat and power (CHP) units, power-to-heat technologies and heat storages. The optimal heat production system is characterized in three diﬀerent electricity pricing scenarios: Historical, wind power dominated and demand dominated. Coal CHP, large heat pumps and heat storages dominate the optimal system if fossil fuels are allowed. Heat pumps and storages take over if fossil fuels are excluded. The capacity allocation between CHP and heat pumps is highly dependent on cost assumptions in the fossil fuel scenario, but the optimal capacities become much more robust if fossil fuels are not included. System cost becomes less robust in a fossil free scenario. If the electricity pricing is dominated by wind power generation or by the electricity demand, heat pumps become more favorable compared to cogeneration units. The need for heat storage more than doubles, if fossil fuels are not included, as the heating system becomes more closely coupled to the electricity system. Keywords: District heating, Energy production, Optimization, Cost sensitivity, Fossil free 1. Introduction District heating systems are facing a new reality on multiple fronts. Ambitious global eﬀorts to decrease car- bon emissions call for the transformation of heat produc- tion systems away from fossil fuels and towards fossil free alternatives. In modern district heating systems combined heat and power (CHP) plants form the backbone of the production system and usually provide a majority of the heat. Coal and gas fuelled CHP is cheaper than biomass based CHP but problematic from a carbon emissions per- spective. At the same time, electricity systems are quickly adopting large amounts of wind power generation, which reduces the economic feasibility of CHP generation by pe- riodically lowering electricity prices 1, 2 . Power-to-heat technologies beneﬁt from this development, especially in combination with heat storage technologies. Inthisstudy, weexplorehowthecost-optimalcomposi- tions of a city-wide heat production system changes when moving into a fossil-free future. The eﬀect of electricity pricing dominated by wind generation or by electricity de- mand is investigated, and the results are corroborated by extensive sensitivity analysis. We use the district heating system of Aarhus, Denmark as a study case, providing the heat load and the validation scenario. District energy systems are often planned and oper- ated on a city level. Therefore, it makes sense to model the district heating production system coupled to a larger electricity system. Taking the city s point of view in themodeling allows us to give recommendations for energy planners under diﬀerent external conditions, such as the state of the regional or national electricity system. In 3 , Lund et al. compared two diﬀerent approaches to energy system modeling: simulation and optimization. Simulation studies simulate and envisage the behavior of the system under a set of operating conditions deﬁned by the user. Scenario based modeling, e.g. in EnergyPLAN, is an example of simulation studies. In optimization stud- ies, the values of a number of decision variables are com- puted to minimize a certain objective function subject to constraints. A common example is allocation of produc- tion capacities in order to minimize system cost. Both modeling paradigms have their merits, and in this study we combine the two in orders to ﬁnd cost-optimal sys- tem conﬁgurations in diﬀerent scenarios. These scenarios include: allowing fossil fuels, excluding fossil fuels, histor- ical electricity pricing, wind dominated electricity pricing and demand dominated electricity pricing. Combining the two approaches, we provide recommendations that are rel- evant to decision makers under diﬀerent planning condi- tions. We indicate the robustness of the recommendations under changing cost assumptions by means of thorough sensitivity analysis. Capacity optimization studies in district energy sys- tems are plentiful in the literature. Our system optimiza- tionincludeswell-establishedtechnologiessuchasdiﬀerent boilers, CHP units, electric boilers, heat pumps and heat Preprint submitted to Energy April 23, 2018arXiv:1804.07557v1 physics.soc-ph 20 Apr 2018 storages. Operations and capacities of CHP units have been optimized in 4, 5 using fossil fuels and in 6, 7 us- ing biomass. The economic feasibility of large heat pumps for district heating systems have been investigated care- fully in 8 , taking day-to-day operational uncertainty into account through stochastic programming. The beneﬁt of long-termheatstorageindistrictheatingsystemshasbeen studied in 9 and heat storage tanks have been compared to using the building mass for heat storage in 10 . Energy systems, in which it is important to model sys- tem nonlinearities, possibly making the objective function non-convexcanbeoptimizedusingglobaloptimizationap- proaches such as genetic algorithms 7, 11, 12 . However, these approaches can be slow and run the risk of not ﬁnd- ing the global minimum. In 9 the capacity and opera- tion of CHP plants are optimized as mixed integer non- linear programming (MINLP) problems, and the authors highlight some of the potential pitfalls of non-convex op- timization. In cases where the energy system behavior can be reasonably linearized, the optimization speed can be decreased. Not surprisingly, mixed integer linear pro- gramming (MILP) 13, 14 and linear programming (LP) 15,16 modelsarewidespreadinproductioncapacityopti- mizationandoperationaloptimization. Athoroughreview of optimization studies in trigeneration systems (electric- ity, heating, cooling) can be found in 17 . In this study, we pose capacity and operational op- timization as an LP problem and validate the resulting system operation against actual operational data for the city of Aarhus using a methodology similar to 18 . Even large LP problems with hundreds of thousands of variables and millions of constraints can be solved deterministically in relatively short time, assuming they are feasible and bounded. This property allows us to perform extensive sensitivity analysis of the cost assumptions
__label__energy	Propagation of Disturbances in AC Electricity Grids Samyak Tamrakara,b, Michael Conratha, Stefan Kettemanna,c aJacobs University, Department of Physics and Earth Sciences, Campus Ring 1, 28759 Bremen, Germany bInstitute of Physics, Carl von Ossietzky Universit at Oldenburg, Ammerl ander Heerstraße 114-118, 26129 Oldenburg cDivision of Advanced Materials Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH), San 31, Hyoja-dong, Nam-gu, Pohang 790-784, South Korea Abstract The energy transition towards high shares of renewable energy resources will affect the dynamics and the stability of electricity grids in many ways. It is therefore crucial to understand its impact. We aim to con- tribute to this understanding by solving the dynamic swing equations describing the coupled rotating masses of synchronous generators and motors. On different grid topologies we identify parameter regimes with very different transient dynamics: the disturbance may either decay exponentially in time, superimposed by os- cillations, with the fast decay rate of a single node, or with a smaller decay rate without oscillations. Most remarkably, as the inertia is lowered, the nodes may become more correlated, slowing down the spreading of a disturbance, decaying slowly with a power law in time. We show that this collective effect exists in meshed transmission grids, but is absent in tree grids. We conclude by discussing consequences for the stability of transmission grids if no measures are undertaken to substitute the inertia of conventional power plants. In order to cover the increasing human energy demand by renewable energy resources and to en- sure that this energy will be available wherever and whenever it is needed, more efﬁcient energy trans- port and storage technologies need to be developed. The ﬂuctuations in generated power by wind turbines and solar cells - both in time and geographically - de- mand to explore new strategies to store energy on all time scales and to distribute the power in the grid smartly. At the same time, the spreading of criti- cal disturbances throughout the grid has to be pre- vented to ensure the stability of the entire grid. Re- newable energy resources ﬂuctuate strongly in time on time scales as small as seconds. Moreover the inverter-connected wind turbines and solar cells pro- vide no inertia 1 . This is in contrast to conven- tional generators, whose rotating masses hold inertia and thereby momentary power reserve available for the grid, which makes the grid resilient and prevents strong ﬂuctuations of the grid frequency on time scales of several seconds 2, 3 . As the inertia in the grid keeps decreasing with higher share of renewables,the grid is responding on shorter time scales to distur- bances. It is therefore essential to understand the im- pact of this development on the stability of electricity grids. In this article, we aim to ﬁnd out if and how the propagation of disturbances in AC grids is modi- ﬁed when the grid inertia from the rotating masses of generators is decreasing. The dynamic interaction and response of gener- ators and consumers is studied modeling the grid as a network of nonlinear oscillators 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 . These nonlinear swing equations describe the dynam- ics of coupled rotating masses by a system of coupled differential equations for local rotor angles i;where idenote the grid nodes. As we aim to contribute to the understanding of how disturbances evolve with time in AC grids, we consider control free grids with- out primary and secondary control measures 1, 2, 3 . The origin of disturbances can be ﬂuctuations in gen- erating power or sudden changes of transmission line capacitance. We solve the nonlinear dynamic power balance equations numerically and explore how a lo- cal perturbation propagates with time throughout the Preprint submitted to Elsevier November 25, 2021 arXiv:1706.10144v4 physics.soc-ph 4 May 2018 grid. We analyze these numerical results, employ- ing analytical results as obtained from mapping the swing equations on discrete linear wave equations for small perturbations 8 . Depending on the geo- graphical distribution of power, grid power transmis- sion capacity and topology we ﬁnd that the distur- bance may either decay exponentially in time with the decay rate of a single oscillator 0;or exponen- tially with a smaller decay rate 0;or, even more slowly, decaying with a power law in time. Such a slow power law decay arise together with a slow, dif- fusive propagation 8 . Results Grid Topologies. Aiming at a systematic ap- proach, we consider three different grid topologies. Firstly, the Cayley tree grid, Fig. 1 a), resembles typical distribution grids which are preferably oper- ated in such a tree-like fashion to pinpoint and repair failures more easily. Starting from a center, a con- stant number of branches grows outward in a given number of branching levels, each time with the same branching number b:Hence, the tree grids are charac- terized byband the level lof branching, the distance between neighbored nodes aand the total number of nodesN:An important characteristic of grids is the degreedi;the number of links connecting node ito any other node. The degree of this tree grid isd b 1;with the exception of the edge nodes, which have degree d 1:Secondly, the square grid, Fig. 1 b). It is a simple meshed topology, used as ba- sic model for transmission grids with their strict re- dundancy demand to guarantee continuing operation even when a single line fails (n-1 criterion). These square grids are characterized by the distance be- tween neighbored nodes a;the linear grid size Land the number of nodes N (L a)2:Their degree is constant,d 4;except at edges ( d 3) and corners (d 2). Thirdly, we choose the German transmis- sion grid, Fig. 1 c) as a real-world example with an irregular realistic topology, which is inhomogeneous and highly meshed. As reference for the German transmission grid, the open-source SciGRID dataset was used 9 . Excluding island nodes in it, the largest connected network of the four highest voltage lev- els, 400 kV , 380 kV , 220 kV as well as some 110kV lines, was adopted as grid model.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	Predictions and Decision Making for Resilient Intelligent Sustainable Energy Systems Martin Braun , Christian Gruhl , Christian A. Hans , Philipp H artel , Christoph Scholz , Bernhard Sick , Malte Siefert , Florian Steinke , Olaf Stursberg , Sebastian Wende-von Berg University of Kassel, Germany. martin.braun, cgruhl, hans, bsick, stursberg uni-kassel.de Fraunhofer IEE, Kassel, Germany. philipp.haertel, christoph.scholz, malte.siefert, sebastian.wende-von.berg iee.fraunhofer.de Technical University of Darmstadt, Germany. florian.steinke eins.tu-darmstadt.de Corresponding author Abstract Future energy systems are subject to various un- certain influences. As resilient systems they should maintain a constantly high operational performance whatever happens. We explore different levels and time scales of decision making in energy systems, highlighting different uncertainty sources that are relevant in different domains. We discuss how the uncertainties can be represented and how one can react to them. The article closes by summarizing, which uncertainties are already well examined and which ones still need further scientific inquiry to obtain resilient energy systems. I. I NTRODUCTION Future sustainable energy systems based on renewable en- ergy sources will have a significantly higher complexity due to a large number of actively integrated elements, weather de- pendencies, and dynamic interactions. Increased uncertainties originating from weather conditions, energy user behaviors, investments and operational decisions of millions of actors, to name just a few sources, have to be addressed. Intelligent methods that enable flexible operations are circuital to handle complexity 1 . Core elements are predictions under uncer- tainty (e.g., nowcasts or forecasts of influential parameters or a status) to enable decision making for operation and control of future energy systems or investments. In the end, the quality of predictions and decisions will define performance and resilience of a sustainable energy system 2 . Within this article, we will explore predictions and deci- sion making at different system and time scales, highlighting relevant uncertainty sources. We will discuss how they can be modeled and how resilient decisions can be derived in different areas (cf. Fig. 1) including model predictive control (MPC) of small-scale systems (seconds to minutes), operational schedul- ing of distribution and transmission systems (minutes to days), and expansion and investment planning (years and decades). The remainder of this article is structured as follows. First, we will highlight recent trends in probabilistic predictions in Section II. Then, we will discuss the use of different decision making schemes for different timescales and system boundaries, namely, MPC in Section III, operational planning in Section IV, and expansion and investment planning in Section V. Section VI concludes the paper by summarizing which extreme cases are considered and which are still left out in today s decision making schemes. sec. min. hour day month year decadesingle unitmicrogriddistrib. systemtransm. system Model predictive controlOperational schedulingExpansion and investment planning TimeSystem boundaryFig. 1. Time horizon and system boundaries of decision-making schemes. II. R ECENT TRENDS IN UNCERTAINTY MODELING In contrast to point predictions, which only predict a single outcome, probabilistic predictions quantify uncertainties in predicted outcomes. Typical forms include quantiles, density predictions, or ensemble scenario predictions 4 , 5 (cf. Fig. 2). They represent possible variants of an unknown present (nowcasts) or future (forecasts), which depend on non- deterministic influences, e.g., weather conditions or human behavior. Probabilistic forecasts are often updated in a sliding time window manner to obtain so-called rolling forecasts. Moreover, several prediction steps within a given forecasting horizon are typically employed, e.g., using a one-hour steps size in a forecast for an entire day. This allows decision processes to make better-informed choices. This is particu- larly important, e.g., in reinforcement learning, where context resilience for decision making is crucial, because it allows the system to respond to different predictions and understand their impact on future outcomes. Additionally, probabilistic forecasts enable decision schemes to anticipate unlikely events. Various approaches to obtain probabilistic predictions exist. Classical approaches include parametric models that assume a functional form of probability distributions, e.g., Gaussian or mixture models, quantile regression 6 , non-parametric techniques, e.g., kernel density estimation, or copula. Recently, neural approaches have become popular. Among them are long short-term memory 7 , Bayesian neural networks, generative adversarial networks 8 , (variational) autoencoders 7 , and convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Probabilistic predictions are only suitable for reliablearXiv:2407.03021v1 eess.SY 3 Jul 2024 KnownForecastUnknown Past FutureWind power(a) Point forecast Past FutureWind power(b) Forecast quantiles Past FutureWind power(c) Probability density forecast Past FutureWind power(d) Ensemble forecastFig. 2. The dashed line is the (unknown) ground truth. In contrast to the point forecast, the probabilistic forecasts reflect the variability in future outcomes. Quantile and density forecasts directly describe the uncertainty in the forecast, while ensemble forecasts consider discrete future outcomes. Data from 3 . decision-making if they are well-calibrated, i.e., if the pre- dicted uncertainty accurately approximates the true probability distribution of the predicted events. For quantile predictions, one must also ensure that the smaller quantiles do not exceed the bounds of the larger ones 9 . Different approaches to assess the reliability of prediction models exist, e.g., reliability diagrams (cf. Fig. 3a). These allow to identify if a prediction is overconfident, i.e., it under- estimates the actual uncertainty, or underconfident. For further assessment, skill scores are often used. These compare the relative accuracy of a predictor with a known benchmark 4 . To build reliable prediction systems it is necessary to calibrate them during training (or afterwards). The pinball loss, for instance, quantifies the discrepancy between predicted quantiles and observed values (cf. Fig. 3b). The continuous ranked probability score is another frequently used measure that allows to minimize the distance between the observed distribution and the predicted cumulative distribution function. For a survey on different uncertainty assessment techniques, we refer to 10 . There is also some research on use-case- dependent loss functions 11 . The availability of training data significantly influences per- formance (and potential model complexity). Machine learning methods often require large amounts of training data to ensure reliable predictions by reducing the epistemic uncertainty of models. However, if there is a high aleatoric uncertainty in the data, i.e., uncertainty in the underlying process
__label__energy	1 Power Systems Without Fuel Joshua A. Taylor, Member, IEEE , Sairaj V . Dhople, Member, IEEE , and Duncan S. Callaway, Member, IEEE Abstract The ﬁniteness of fossil fuels implies that future electric power systems may predominantly source energy from fuel-free renewable resources like wind and solar. Evidently, these power systems without fuel will be environmentally benign, sustainable, and subject to milder failure scenarios. Many of these advantages were projected decades ago with the deﬁnition of the soft energy path , which describes a future where all energy is provided by numerous small, simple, and diverse renewable sources. Here we provide a thorough investigation of power systems without fuel from technical and economic standpoints. The paper is organized by timescale and covers issues like the irrelevance of unit commitment in networks without large, fuel- based generators, the dubiousness of nodal pricing without fuel costs, and the need for new system-level models and control methods for semiconductor-based energy-conversion interfaces. Index Terms Optimization, Power electronics, Power system operation, Renewable energy, Soft energy path. I. I NTRODUCTION EVENTUALLY, whether from a deliberate shift to renew- ables or the depletion of planetary fossil fuel sources, major portions of power systems will run without fossil fuels. There is now extensive literature on this subject, see, e.g., 1 , 2 , most of which focuses on the advantages and disadvan- tages of renewable energy sources. Here we also consider this scenario, but focus on the combined consequences of using renewables and eliminating fuel-based generators; we fully deﬁne our scope in Section I-B. We believe that it is important to discuss these issues both for the limiting case of exclusively renewable power production and also under mostly renewable power production, in which case planning and operational practices should reﬂect the large majority of renewables in- stead of a small minority of fuel-based generators. Much of the salient physics of present-day power systems are attributable to fuel-based generators, which are most cost- effective at large unit sizes; for example, thermal limits con- strain power production schedules, and synchronous machine rotor inertias dominate transient stability. While the addition of intermittent and distributed renewables will change the form of power systems, so will removing the fuel-based generators that account for much of its current character. Many of the consequences of removing fuel-based generators are well studied, for example the loss of system inertia and the need to replace generator reserves with storage and demand response. However, it is our perception that many important issues have not been thoroughly discussed, such as the need J. A. Taylor is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. E-mail: josh.taylor utoronto.ca . S. V . Dhople is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engi- neering at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. E-mail: sdhople umn.edu . D. S. Callaway is with the Energy and Resources Group at the University of California at Berkeley, CA, USA. E-mail: dcal berkeley.edu .for new optimal power ﬂow objectives to replace fuel costs and the attendant need for alternative economic mechanisms to nodal pricing. In some cases, removing fuel-based generators can result in signiﬁcant beneﬁts like the elimination of the unit commitment problem and the viability of transitioning to a predominantly DC infrastructure. We address such issues in a uniﬁed fashion by surveying existing discussions, identifying challenges, and suggesting new directions where appropriate. Two key motifs of this paper are that (see Fig. 1) all timescales are shrinking, and a few large components will be replaced by numerous small components. These changes have a number of salient consequences. For instance, renewables can be installed and maintained more quickly than fuel-based generators, bulk generation need not be scheduled days in advance to accommodate stringent startup and shutdown constraints, and the loss of mechanical inertia implies that transients will be dominated by the dy- namic behaviors of many small, fast power-electronic energy- conversion interfaces. We partially structure our discussions around timescales by ﬁrst considering long-term planning, then steady-state operation, and then transient dynamics. While so doing, we additionally highlight the emergence and disap- pearance of new and old couplings. For example, renewable intermittency couples hourly steady-state dispatch decisions to regulation requirements. Similarly, wind and solar power sources consume negligible quantities of water compared to the cooling needs of fuel-based generators, drastically reducing the power system s dependency on the water infrastructure. A. The soft energy path and the status quo The rationale for a fully renewable energy infrastructure has long been well established; we now brieﬂy summarize its beginnings and provide a few modern examples. In 1976, Lovins described the soft energy path as a future in which soci- etal energy needs are met by numerous small, simple, diverse technologies that rely on renewable energy sources 3 , 4 . The soft energy path stands in contrast to the hard energy path , wherein energy is provided by a few large, resource intensive, complex technologies which inevitably induce caustic political dependencies and are prone to expensive physical failures. The case for the soft energy path which we note, does not include nuclear power has been restated and reafﬁrmed in many ways over the past four decades; for instance, the capability of wind and solar to fulﬁll all of our energy needs is addressed in 5 . Distributed generation 6 and microgrids 7 are two related architectural paradigms where small, renewable technologies meet energy needs locally. Another compelling argument for the soft energy path is that unused wind and solar energy arearXiv:1506.04799v1 cs.SY 15 Jun 2015 2 Fig. 1. No-fuel power systems will have fundamentally different spatio-temporal characteristics. Time scales governing operations and control will shrink, and energy-conversion interfaces will be distributed in form and function. lost while fossil fuels may be indeﬁnitely ... left ... in the ground for emergency use only 3 . It may well be some time before continental-scale portions of power systems are fully on the soft energy path. However, there are a number of encouraging
__label__energy	The Value of Competing Energy Storage in Decarbonized Power Systems Maximilian Parzena,1, Davide Fioritib, Aristides Kiprakisa aUniversity of Edinburgh, Institute for Energy Systems, EH9 3DW Edinburgh, United Kingdom bUniversity of Pisa, Department of Energy, Systems, Territory and Construction Engineering, Largo Lucio Lazzarino, 56122 Pisa, Italy Abstract As the world seeks to transition to a sustainable energy future, energy storage technologies are increasingly recognized as critical enablers. However, the macro-energy system assessment of energy storage has often focused on isolated storage technologies and neglected competition between them, thus leaving out which energy storage to prioritise. The article applies a systematic deployment analysis method that enables system-value evaluation in perfect competitive markets and demonstrates its application to 20 different energy storage technologies across 40 distinct scenarios for a representative future power system in Africa. Here, each storage solution is explored alone and in competition with others, examining specific total system costs, deployment configuration, and cost synergies between the storage technologies. The results demonstrate the significant benefits of optimizing energy storage with competition compared to without ( 10 cost savings), and highlight the relevance of several energy storage technologies in different scenarios. This work provides insights into the role of energy storage in decarbonizing power systems and informs future research and policy decisions. There is no one-size-fits-all energy storage, but rather an ideal combination of multiple energy storage options that are designed and operated in symbiosis. Keywords: Energy storage, Energy modelling, Technology evaluation, Variable renewable energy BAU Business as Usual EP Energy to Power LCOS Levelized Cost of Storage 1. Introduction As the world looks to decarbonise its power systems in order to mitigate the impacts of climate change, power modeling scenarios have made it increasingly clear that energy storage will play a critical role in the transition to a more sustainable future 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 . The rise of renewable energy sources such as solar and wind power has presented a significant challenge for the electricity grid, which must balance the variable and intermittent nature of these sources with the electricity demand. Energy storage technologies provide a solution to this challenge by allow- ing excess renewable energy to be stored and used when needed, effectively decoupling the generation and con- sumption of electricity while adding system-value. Here, as in 6 , the system-value of energy storage refers to the Email address: max.parzen ed.ac.uk (Maximilian Parzen)broader economic benefits that storage can provide to the power system beyond its immediate application. These benefits include the displacement of firm generation and network infrastructure, greater renewable energy utilisa- tion, and the reduction of transmission and distribution losses, which often reduces the reliance on fossil fuels and lowers carbon emissions. In this context, energy stor- age, with its system-value provision, is a key enabler of transitioning to a cleaner, more sustainable energy system worldwide. According to 7 , assessing the competitiveness or suit- ability of energy storage in larger power systems with well- known Levelized Cost of Storage ( LCOS) methods as applied in 8, 9, 10, 11 are less suitable compared to system-value assessment methods as applied 1, 4, 12, 13, 14 . How- ever, all these system-value assessments explore isolated storage technologies that do not consider any competition with other storage technologies. For instance, the inspiring work in 1 assessed a single generic energy storage in two representative decarbonised power systems. Through a design-space exploration of the generic storage, they iden- tified what energy capacity costs are required to replace Preprint submitted to arXiv. Not peer-reviewed May 24, 2023arXiv:2305.09795v2 physics.soc-ph 23 May 2023 firm generation, which are the most critical storage perfor- mance parameters and sizing characteristics that contribute to the system-value. However, it is also known that adding more technology options to models often results in syner- gies. These synergies reduce the significantly total system costs, which are defined as the sum of all operational and investment costs, raising at least questions of the validity of the previously found results of single energy storage scenarios 7 . Expanding on this knowledge, 7 intro- duces and demonstrates a systematic deployment analysis method that enables system-value evaluation in perfect competitive markets but demonstrates the method by ig- noring uncertainty and only considering a limited amount of storage technologies, namely hydrogen and lithium-ion energy storage. In this article, we assess multiple energy storage with the newly suggested systematic deployment analysis, also addressing uncertainty. In total, we assess the system-value of 20 energy storage (see Figure 2) with and without com- petition across 40 distinct scenarios for a representative future power system in Africa. We use a global coverage open energy system model suitable for investment and operational co-optimization, including grid infrastructure and detailed operating decisions and constraints 15 . Fur- ther, we apply this model to its already validated Nigerian power system 15 , configure it with high temporal resolu- tion (8760h) and a spatial interconnected 10-node system to keep some of the underlying grid and environmental in- formation within the simplification. Within this model, we integrate for the first time 20 storage technologies, which data is collected and expanded from Pacific Northwest Na- tional Laboratory (PNNL) (see Table 2, and Methods 6.1). We explore two unanswered questions: how significant is the system-benefit from optimizing energy storage with competition compared to without, and which energy stor- age is optimization relevant considering uncertainty. To answer the research questions, we focused on two sce- nario trees as illustrated in Figure 1. The first scenario tree, defined as single storage scenario, involves optimizing each of the energy storage solutions in isolation, assuming business-as-usual costs. This scenario set includes 20 opti- mization runs and excludes any competition between the different storage solutions. By doing so, it is possible to investigate the specific total system costs ( e MWh) and deployment configuration (GW for charger discharger or GWh for store). The second scenario tree also involves 20 optimization runs, but in this case, all energy storage solu-tions can be optimized within each scenario. This approach allows for perfect competition and
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	The Contribution of Di erent Electric Vehicle Control Strategies to Dynamical Grid Stability Sabine Auer,1, 2, Casper Roos,1Jobst Heitzig,1Frank Hellmann,1and J urgen Kurths1, 2, 3 1Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, 14412 Potsdam, Germany 2Department of Physics, Humboldt University Berlin, 12489 Berlin, Germany 3Institute of Applied Physics, Russian Academy of Science, 603950 Nizhny Novgorod, Russia A major challenge for power grids with a high share of renewable energy systems (RES), such as island grids, is to provide frequency stability in the face of renewable uctuations. In this work we evaluate the ability of electric vehicles (EV) to provide distributed primary control and to eliminate frequency peaks. To do so we for the rst time explicitly model the network structure and incorporate non-Gaussian, strongly intermittent uctuations typical for RES. We show that EVs can completely eliminate frequency peaks. Using threshold randomization we further demonstrate that demand synchronization e ects and battery stresses can be greatly reduced. In contrast, explicit frequency averaging has a strong destabilizing e ect, suggesting that the role of delays in distributed control schemes requires further studies. Overall we nd that distributed control outperforms central one. The results are robust against a further increase in renewable power production and uctuations. With the increasing share of intermittent renewable energy sources (RES) in Germany, it is becoming more challenging to maintain the dynamical stability of power grids 1, 2 . Intermittent RES have strong power output uctuations on a short time scale which cause imbalances between the power production and consumption 3, 4 . To maintain the grid s dynamical stability, the authors of 5 suggested the concept of Decentral Smart Grid Con- trol (DSGC), where power consumers adjust their de- mand according to the locally measured grid frequency. The use of the locally measured grid frequency for DSGC has the advantage that the electrical appliances can be automated with load controllers, such as the Distributed Intelligent Load Controller (DILC) 4, 6 . These load controllers then adjust the power demand of an electrical device with a certain control strategy or heuristic 4 . Today, in Germany around 90 of RES are installed in distribution grids 7 , the lower grid levels of the hierar- chical power grid infrastructure. In order to balance uc- tuations locally where they appear, electric vehicles (EV) and their battery storage systems would present an ideal use case for DSGC 8, 9 . EVs can adjust their power demand within milliseconds and have the capability to deliver power back into the grid, also known as vehicle to grid (V2G) power transfer and vice versa simply charge grid to vehicle 10, 11 . With a frequency control strategy, EVs essentially act as primary frequency control reserves, since they au- tonomously assist in stabilizing the grid frequency 8, 9 . The fact that 94 of all U.S cars are parked at noon time of a typical day 12 shows the great potential for EV con- trol. Instead of installing additional expensive balancing hardware, the anyways idle EVs may be used for grid control purposes. A control strategy that has been suggested and used in auer pik-potsdam.deorder to maintain dynamical grid stability is the band gap strategy 8, 13, 14 . In this control strategy a dead-band, the frequency interval between the battery thresholds for positive and negative frequency deviations, is prede ned where no power, relative to the base charging scenario, is transferred between the EV and the power grid, as small frequency deviations are considered to be part of normal operation. When the frequency deviations are out of this band gap, the EV and power grid exchange an amount of power that depends on the magnitude of the deviation from the band gap and a prede ned rate of power transfer called the ramping rate. Thus, this rate of power trans- fer and the frequency band gap are the parameters which determine the sensitivity of this control strategy. The performance of this control strategy is evaluated with re- gard to its grid stability improvement and the number of battery switchings. Switching events include the battery action changes: decharging to idle, charging to idle, idle to charging and idle to decharging. The grid stability is evaluated with regard to the threshold exceedance which is the time share the frequency spends outside a given safe band. In this study, we aim to nd an optimal parameteriza- tion for the EV control in a modeling scenario with very strong Photovoltaic (PV) penetration 15 . Our param- eterization is such that it improves the grid s dynamical stability, minimizes the amount of switching events to avoid battery degradation, and ensures an e ective con- trol at the same time. In addition, we test whether ran- domization will be useful in order to prevent undesirable demand synchronization as observed in 4, 16 18 . In contrast to previous works, we explicitly model the network structure as a complex network which gives us the opportunity to investigate the in uence of decentral vs. central control and model the interaction of appli- ances via the power grid. In addition, stochastic models reproducing solar power uctuations are very recent 19 and we are the rst to incorporate the true intermittent nature of uctuations from RES in such a grid controlarXiv:1708.03531v1 physics.soc-ph 11 Aug 2017 study. As a simpli cation, all nodes in our network have the same absolute power and inertia to exclude any side ef- fects from network heterogeneities that make the evalu- ation of di erent control strategies more di cult. For our model setup, by numerical simulations we nd a minimal necessary (critical) ramping rate that com- pletely suppresses threshold exceedance and therefore im- proves grid stability. We reproduced the relation be- tween ramping rate and frequency deviation and thus ex- ceedance analytically. The same ramp for all EVs leads, as expected, to a synchronization of the control devices with the result of a large number of battery switching events. Thus, we complete the EV control scheme with a randomization approach
__label__energy	IEEE IAS 57TH INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL POWER SYSTEMS TECHNICAL CONFERENCE, APRIL 2021 1 Impacts of Earthquakes on Electrical Grid Resilience Adam Mate1Member, IEEE and Travis Hagan2Student Member, IEEE and Eduardo Cotilla-Sanchez2Senior Member, IEEE and Ted K. A. Brekken2Senior Member, IEEE and Annette V on Jouanne3Senior Member, IEEE Abstract One of the most complex and devastating disaster scenarios that the U.S. Paciﬁc Northwest region and the state of Oregon faces is a large magnitude Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake event. The region s electrical grid lacks in resilience against the destruction of a megathrust earthquake, a powerful tsunami, hundreds of aftershocks and increased volcanic activity, all of which are highly probable components of this hazard. This research seeks to catalyze further understanding and im- provement of resilience. By systematizing power system related experiences of historical earthquakes, and collecting practical and innovative ideas from other regions on how to enhance network design, construction, and operation, important steps are being taken toward a more resilient, earthquake-resistant grid. This paper presents relevant ﬁndings in an effort to be an overview and a useful guideline for those who are also working towards greater electrical grid resilience. Index Terms Disaster Preparedness, Earthquakes, Resilience, Power System Planning, Network Operation. I. I NTRODUCTION Since the 1980s, when researchers recognized the Cascadia Subduction Zone (abbr. CSZ) as an active fault, the scientiﬁc community has been aware of the major geological hazard that the state of Oregon and the U.S. Paciﬁc Northwest region (abbr. PNW) faces: the possibility of a tremendous earthquake and tsunami caused by this fault, which can strike at any moment and can cause enormous destruction thorough the region 1 . The Oregon Talent Council (abbr. OTC), in their Oregon Talent Plan 2 , identiﬁed a critical need for more and better prepared electrical power systems engineers to serve Oregon s energy technologies and utility industry. There is an urgent need for agile engineers with expertise combining technical education, applied skills, and work experience focused in disaster preparedness and system resilience. Consequently, OTC decided to fund the Paciﬁc Northwest Electrical System Resiliency and Disaster Preparedness Training Project to address the existing talent gap; to conduct novel research on electrical system resilience, to increase resilience awareness, and to train Oregon electrical engineers for disaster prepared- ness with particular attention to a CSZ event. 1The author is with the Advanced Network Science Initiative at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL ANSI), Los Alamos, NM 87544 USA. Email: famate g lanl.gov. 2The authors are with the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA. Email: fhagantr, ecs, brekken g oregonstate.edu. 3The author is with the Energy Systems Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Baylor University, Waco, TX 76706 USA. Email: fannette vonjouanne g baylor.edu. Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this paper are available online at https: ieeexplore.ieee.org.This paper presents some of the key ﬁndings of the OTC funded research. It aims to systematize power system related experiences of historical catastrophic earthquakes in order to gain knowledge that can help the PNW to best prepare for a future CSZ event. The key contribution is a comprehensive collection of proven practices and innovative ideas from other regions and nations of the world, on how to improve power system design, construction and operation, which can help to transform Oregon s and the PNW s electrical grid into a more resilient, earthquake and tsunami resistant power system. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec- tion II. gives a comprehensive review on the topic s back- ground: information about the CSZ and its future, current resilience in Oregon and efforts to increase it, and a brief introduction of historical earthquakes that can serve as exem- plar cases to provide valuable input. Sections III., IV ., and V . present ﬁndings related to the generation, transmission and distribution levels of the electrical grid, respectively. Section VI summarizes the research and concludes with future steps and foreseeable difﬁculties. II. B ACKGROUND A. Next Cascadia Earthquake The CSZ is an approx. 600 miles long offshore fault, which lies in the coastal region of the PNW, stretching from Cape Mendocino in northern California through the states of Oregon and Washington to the Brooks Peninsula in southern British Columbia 1 , 3 5 . The fault is part of a great arc of subduction zones that surrounds the Paciﬁc Ocean, creating a formation called the Ring of Fire, and is a geologic mirror image of the subduction zone lying east of Japan 1 . In the CSZ, three denser oceanic tectonic plates (namely the Explorer, Juan de Fuca, and Gorda plates) are sliding from west to east and subducting beneath the less dense continental plate (North American plate) that moves in a general southwest direction, overriding the oceanic plates. Fig. 1 illustrates the location of the subduction zone and these plates. The movement of these plates is neither constant nor smooth: the plates stick, building stress until the fault suddenly breaks and releases the accumulated energy in the form of an earthquake(s) 3 . Thereafter, the plates start moving again, and continue to move, until getting stuck again. There is no doubt that another subduction earthquake will strike the PNW in the future. In the last decade, research has conﬁrmed that the CSZ has a long history of great earthquakes. The most recent happened on January 26, 1700, creating a magnitude 9.0 earthquake followed within minutes by a largearXiv:2101.07928v2 eess.SY 27 Dec 2022 IEEE IAS 57TH INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL POWER SYSTEMS TECHNICAL CONFERENCE, APRIL 2021 2 Fig. 1. Schematic view of the tectonic plates in the CSZ area 5 , 6 . tsunami. Energy for the next earthquake is currently building up along the fault, and has been since the last earthquake 1 , 3 , 5 . The time interval between previous CSZ events varied from a few decades to many centuries, but most intervals were shorter than the time elapsed since the last event in 1700 1 .
__label__energy	How fast can one overcome the paradox of the energy transition? A physico-economic model for the European power grid Laurent Pagniera,b, Philippe Jacquoda aSchool of Engineering, University of Applied Sciences of Western Switzerland HES-SO CH-1951 Sion, Switzerland bInstitute of Theoretical Physics, EPF Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland Abstract The paradox of the energy transition is that the low marginal costs of new renewable energy sources (RES) drag elec- tricity prices down and discourage investments in exible productions that are needed to compensate for the lack of dispatchability of the new RES. The energy transition thus discourages the investments that are required for its own harmonious expansion. To investigate how this paradox can be overcome, we argue that, under certain assumptions, future electricity prices are rather accurately modeled from the residual load obtained by subtracting non- exible pro- ductions from the load. Armed with the resulting economic indicator, we investigate future revenues for European power plants with various degree of exibility. We nd that, if neither carbon taxes nor fuel prices change, exible productions would be nancially rewarded better and sooner if the energy transition proceeds faster but at more or less constant total production, i.e. by reducing the production of thermal power plants at the same rate as the RES production increases. Less exible productions, on the other hand, would see their revenue grow more moderately. Our results indicate that a faster energy transition with a quicker withdrawal of thermal power plants would reward exible productions faster. Keywords: Residual load, Electricity prices, Renewable energy 1. Introduction 1.1. The paradox of the energy transition The goal of the energy transition is to meet energy demand from human activities in a sustainable way. In the electricity sector, the transition currently increases the penetration of productions from new renewable en- ergy sources (RES), in particular solar photovoltaic pan- els (PV) and wind turbines (WT). These RES di er from the traditional productions they substitute for, in at least two very signi cant ways. First, they lack dispatchability and have little mechanical inertia, second, they have very low marginal production costs. Their lack of dispatcha- bility and mechanical inertia requires additional exible productions and possibly electrical energy storage (EES) to ensure the stability of the power grid as well as the balance of demand and supply at all times. Therefore in- creasing penetrations of new RES should be accompanied by signi cant investments in new facilities with rather long payback periods. However, the new RES s low marginal cost brings spot electricity prices and thus bene ciary mar- gins of electric power companies down, while further ex- tending the payback period for investments in new facil- ities. The energy transition is therefore confronted with the paradox that it creates economic conditions which, at least temporarily, strongly discourage the infrastructural Email addresses: laurent.pagnier epfl.ch (Laurent Pagnier), philippe.jacquod hevs.ch (Philippe Jacquod)investments it needs to progress further. Because of that, a number of hydroelectric plant projects are currently frozen in Europe. To plan the next steps in the energy transition, to evaluate and anticipate the investments needed for its safe, steady progress, it is therefore important to get a relatively good quantitative estimate of future electricity prices. The key issue is whether production exibility will soon be rewarded well enough that it will motivate in- vestments in fast dispatchable power plants and EES at a level consistent with the rate at which RES penetration increases. The traditional way to address such questions is to con- struct economic models for electricity production and con- sumption. Those models are standardly based on a num- ber of assumptions on general economic conditions, demo- graphic evolution, costs of di erent fuels, maintenance and production costs, amount of taxes and subsidies on energy production and so forth. Once all these ingredients are xed, both the electricity demand and the marginal cost of di erent productions can be estimated, which determine the market price of electricity, from which one nally com- putes expected future revenues. From these revenues, in- vestment decisions can ultimately be made. The accuracy of this procedure relies on the accuracy of each of the as- sumptions on which it is based. Unfortunately, the latter are to a high degree arbitrary economic growth rates, unemployment rates (indicative of the volume of indus- trial activities), taxation amounts, fuel costs (in particular natural gas prices), carbon taxes and so forth cannot be Preprint submitted to Elsevier June 18, 2018arXiv:1706.00330v2 physics.soc-ph 15 Jun 2018 MonTueWed Thu FriSatSun-20-10010203040Residual load GW 0102030405060 Day-ahead price EUR MWh MonTueWed Thu FriSatSun-100102030Residual load GW 1020304050 Day-ahead price EUR MWh Figure 1: German residual load (green) and day-ahead electricity price (blue) for a winter (top) and summer (bottom) week in 2015 data taken from ENTSO-E (2015a) . Vertical dashed lines indicate noon time. predicted accurately on time scales of decades, correspond- ing to typical payback times for investments in the energy sector. In this manuscript we take a deliberately di erent approach, using as few working hypotheses as possible. Eurotranselec , our model to be presented below, is mostly based on physical conditions extracted from the size and production types of national power plant eets as well as the electricity demand. We argue that it introduces a re- liable though quite simple procedure to evaluate future electricity prices in the not too far future, given scenar- ios for the energy transition and the resulting evolution of power plant eets. We use it to investigate revenues of electric power plants in a time window until 2020. 1.2. The residual load and electricity prices Our starting observation is that electricity prices re- ect the law of supply and demand. Accordingly they ex- hibit some degree of correlation with what exible sources must generate to sustain load the larger the di erence between demand and non-dispatchable supply, the higher the electricity price. As a matter of fact, spot market prices are usually higher at times of larger imbalance be- tween demand and non-dispatchable supply, when the im- balance leans strongly on the demand
__label__energy	1 Development of a fracture capture simulator to quantify the instability evolution in porous medium Ramesh Kannan Kandasami1, Charalampos Konstantinou2 and Giovanna Biscontin3 1Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai, India. Email: rameshkk iitm.ac.in 2Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Cyprus, Nicosia , Cyprus . Email: ckonst06 ucy.ac.cy 3Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, U .K. Email: gb479 cam.ac.uk ABSTRACT Understanding and controlling fracture propagation is one of the most challenging engineering problems, especially in the oil and gas sector, groundwater hydrology and geothermal energy applications. Predicting the fracture orientation while also possessing a non -linear material response becomes more complex when the medium is non -homogeneous and anisotropic. Fracturing behaviour in geological porous media that exhi bit high leak-off potential is not clearly understood. In this context, a novel testing technique is used to simulate the ground conditions in the laboratory and study the instability characteristics of such geo -materials. The bespoke apparatus designed an d developed in this research programme is capable of applying true anisotropic boundary stresses, injecting fluid at a predefined flow rate and viscosity while also imaging the instability fracture propagation in a porous medium such as sand and weak rock . Pressure profiles and the progression of fracture are recorded simultaneously during the fluid injection process into specimens subjected to different boundary stresses. The fracture propagation data are analysed, which provides information on the evolut ion of fracture morphology and expansion velocity during the injection event. Keywords: Fingering fracturing, cavity expansion, anisotropy, infiltration, microbially induced carbonate precipitation 1. Introduction Hydraulic fracturing is ubiquitous not only in oil well exploration but also in grouting industries (Morgenstern 1963), geothermal energy extraction (Zhang et al. 2020), subsurface hydrogen storage (Raza et al. 2022), CO 2 sequestration (Fu et al. 2017), coal bed methane extractio n under frozen conditions (Fan et al. 2019), groundwater decontamination (Mahmoodi et al. 2020) , hydraulic barriers (Konstantinou and Biscontin, 2022 ) and has given great impetus in indirect crustal stress measurements (Zoback et al. 1977). Extensive studies have been carried out to understand the generation and propagation of hydraulically induced fractures under complex boundary conditions, especiall y in competent rock formations (Guo et al. 1993, Rubin 1983, Durban and Papanastasiou 1997, Papanastasiou 1999 2000, Peterson et al. 2001). Mathematical models (Khristianovic and Zheltov 1955, Perkins and Kern 1961, Geertsma and Haafkens 1979, Desroches et al. 1994, Geertsma and De Klerk 1969, Nordgren 1972, Sneddon and Lowengrub 1969) based on the fundamental principles of elasticity, lubrication theory, basic assumptions on the material behaviour such as homogeneity, isotropy and impermeability were use d to derive the fracture pressure and fracture dimensions. However, the fracture response in highly porous rock 2 deviates substantially compared to a competent rock formation. Further, the existing experimental methods rely on indirect measurements of fract ure characteristics which are generally unreliable. Simulating the in -situ stresses in the laboratory and studying the fracture morphology in porous media during a fluid injection event is essential to effectively understand the fracturing process in natur al materials. 2. Overview of experimental techniques The first laboratory study on hydraulic fracturing in rocks was carried out by Scott et al. (1953) on thick hollow cylinders of sandstone and shale. A specialized steel chamber was designed to receive t he specimen while also applying the confining pressure. During fluid injection, the fracture pressure was measured, and comparisons were made with theoretical model predictions. In the ensuing research, Lamont and Jessen (1963) studied fracture propagation across existing discontinuities in rectangular block specimens using a true triaxial and biaxial setup. The fracture geometry was observed after post -test slicing of the specimen to quantify the influence of the existing plane of weakness on the direction of hydraulically induced fractures. Further, cubical and cylindrical hydro -stone specimens were hydraulically fractured in the laboratory (Haimson and Fairhurst, 1969) by applying true triaxial and biaxial stresses, respectively. In the case of a true tri axial system, the two horizontal stresses were applied using hydraulically powered flat jacks, while the vertical stress was applied using a compression testing loading frame. In the biaxial setup, the confining pressure was applied on the specimen placed inside a chamber filled with oil while the compression testing machine applied the axial stress. Two injection fluids (penetrating and non - penetrating fluid) were used for fracturing the porous rock specimens. The effect of the rate of fluid injection and injection hole diameter on the breakdown pressure was measured. Experimental studies were also performed by Rubin (1983), specifically in impermeable materials like PMMA (a transparent acrylic) instead of rock, under plane strain conditions in order to ver ify the predictions of fracture models. A specifically designed experimental setup was developed with a water -injection fluid interface (separation chamber), a hand pump to apply pressure to pre -fracture the model and a mechanical pump to apply the injecti on pressure at a constant flow rate - all three connected in series. Since PMMA was transparent, images were captured to record the fracture propagation. These experiments were performed without the application of confining pressure and on a non -representa tive material system. In addition to the slew of hydro -fracturing experiments on quasi -brittle materials, Mori and Tamura (1987) accomplished a series of fracture tests on cohesive soils. A special triaxial fracturing apparatus was developed where the con fining pressure and deviatoric stress were applied to a predetermined value and held constant while hydraulically fracturing the cohesive soils. They observed that the fracture initiates when the borehole pressure exceeds the sum of the confining pressure and shear strength of the soil. After fracturing the specimens, Rhodamine dye was injected through the borehole to investigate the fracture morphology. Murdoch (1993) studied the fracture patterns in clayey silt at different moisture content under low tria xial stresses. The fracturing cell consisted of inflatable neoprene rubber bladders capable of applying three -dimensional confining stresses on the rectangular block specimens. A starter slot was created in the specimen through
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	An MDP-Based Approach for Distribution System Control with PV Generation and Battery Storage Robert Sosnowski , Marcin Baszy nski , Charalambos Konstantinou Department of Power Electronics and Energy Control Systems, AGH University of Science and Technology (AGH UST) CEMSE Division, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) E-mail: sosnowski, mbaszyn agh.edu.pl, robert.sosnowski, charalambos.konstantinou kaust.edu.sa Abstract This paper proposes a decision-making approach for the control of distribution systems with distributed energy resources (DERs) equipped with photovoltaic (PV) units and battery energy storage systems (BESS). The objective is to minimize the total operational cost of the distribution system while satisfying the system operating constraints. The method is based on the discrete-time finite-horizon Markov Decision Process (MDP) framework. Different aspects of the distribution system operation are considered, such as the possibilities of curtailment of PV generation, managing battery storage, reactive power injection, load shedding, and providing a flexibility service for the transmission system. The model is tested for the IEEE 33- bus system with two added DERs and the study cases involve various unexpected events. The experimental results show that this method enables the attainment of relatively low total cost values compared to the reference deterministic approach. The benefits of applying this approach are particularly evident when there is a significant difference between the predicted and actual PV power generation. Index Terms Distribution systems, Markov Decision Process (MDP), distributed energy resources (DERs), PV , battery energy storage systems (BESS). I. I NTRODUCTION The reduction of operational costs, alongside with the increasing load and the need to reduce emissions to the environment, requires the development of optimal energy management algorithms for distribution systems 1 . One of the major challenges regarding modern electric grids is the integration of renewable energy sources (RES) such as photovoltaic (PV) systems. Despite that distributed RES gen- eration decreases net power demand and the power losses, the relatively high uncertainty of such generation may affect the grid reliability by causing some additional challenges such as voltage fluctuations 2 . Furthermore, RES can be affected by extreme weather conditions, e.g., lightning, wildfire, flood, snow or dust cover 3 , and operational faults, e.g., line to ground or inverter faults 4 , resulting in reduced or interrupted generation. Energy storage systems (ESS) can play an important role in dealing with the stochastic nature of renewable energy resources 5 . Specifically, battery energy storage systems (BESS), which are characterized by very fast response and capability of providing regulation services 5 , are becoming more and more popular in recent years, e.g., the United States battery storage capacity is expected to grow by 89 in 2024 6 . ESS can help in dealing with the intermittent genera-tion and fluctuations of the power generated by renewable resources and enhance system s efficiency and flexibility 7 . Considering the intermittency of DER-based RES as well as the integration of BESS in distribution systems, it is of paramount importance to develop decision-making methods that are able to optimize the system operation and reduce operational costs. One of the frameworks which can be used for modeling systems with uncertainty is the Markov Decision Process (MDP). In literature, there are many works regarding approaches which are based on MDP or Markov Chain which focus on thermostatically controlled loads (TCLs) control in order to provide ancillary services for the electric grid. For instance, such works focus on TCL synchronization 8 , 9 , lack of real-time state information 10 , demand response to compensate the forecast error of wind power generation 11 , and taking into account both utility, aggregator and customer perspectives 12 , 13 . MDP-based methods can also be applied for managing the power system with wind generators by controlling the en- ergy storage 14 , or system configuration 15 . These papers present methods for reducing the calculation time by using stochastic dual dynamic programming (SDDP) and approxi- mate dynamic programming (ADP) approaches, respectively. MDPs can be also applied to solve unit commitment and economic dispatch problems with intermittent wind genera- tion 16 , 17 . In the area of distribution systems with PV generation, the authors in 18 present an approach based on reinforcement learning to optimally dispatch PV invert- ers in unbalanced distribution systems using a decentralized architecture. In, 19 , a distribution system with both PV and ESS is considered in which the operator can control the energy storage by specifying the amount of energy that is drawn from or supplied to it, in order to minimize the cost of the network power losses. MDP-based approaches are also applicable to deal with the consequences of extreme weather conditions. For instance, in 20 , the authors present an approach applicable for unfolding events such as typhoons. Another example is optimal load restorations in distribution systems by dispatching distributed generation and ESS units after sudden outages caused by, e.g., extreme natural events such as hurricanes 21 . While past works concentrate on a relatively narrow scope of the operational aspects of the distribution system, this work takes into account different aspects of the distributionarXiv:2407.17257v2 eess.SY 12 Dec 2024 TABLE I: Nomenclature. Symbol Description a, s Action, state A,Aon,S Offline and online actions sets, states set b d n l BESS DER bus line index B D N L BESS DER bus line set c, C Price, cost Ebes,b Energy stored in BESS b P Q S Active reactive apparent power Ppred pv, δPpv Prediction and its relative error of the PV power gen. Ta(s s) Transition probability from state stos under action a t t T Time epoch number duration set Ut(s) Expected utility for epoch tand state s Vn, Il Busnvoltage, line lcurrent (RMS) γ Discounting factor system operation, such as the possibilities of PV generation curtailment, management of BESS, reactive power injection, load shedding, and providing a flexible service to the trans- mission system. It presents a decision-making method using the MDP discrete-time finite-horizon framework for the dis- tribution system control. The proposed approach, in relation to the PV generation probabilities,
__label__energy	1 Low -energy consumption, free -form capacitive deionisation through nanostructured networks Cleis Santos, ,a,b Inés V. Rodriguez, ,b,c Julio J. Lado, ,c María Vila,b Enrique García -Quismondo,c Marc A. Anderson,c Jesús Palmac and Juan J. Vilatelab a Universität Bremen, Energiespeicher - und Energiewandlersysteme, Bibliothekstraße 1, 28359 Bremen, Germany b IMDEA Materials Institute, Tecnogetafe. Eric Kandel, 2, 28906, Getafe, Madrid, S pain. c Electrochemical Processes Unit, IMDEA Energy Avda. Ramón de la Sagra, 3, 28935, Móstoles, Madrid, Spain Tel: 49 421 2246 -7332 cleis.santos uni -bremen.de , Tel: 34 91 737 11 20 julio.lado imdea.org These authors contributed equally to this work KEYWORDS: CNT fiber fabrics , nanostructured hybrid networks, asymmetric Capacitive Deionization (CDI), free -form CDI device . 2 ABSTRACT Capacitive Deionization (CDI) is a non -energy intensive water treatment technology. To harness the enormous potential of CDI requires improving performance, while offering industrially feasible solutions. Following this idea, the replacement of costly meta llic components has been proposed as a mean of limiting corrosion problems. This work explores the use of nanostructured hybrid networks to enable free -form and metal -free CDI devices. The strategy consists of producing interpenetrated networks of highly c onductive flexible carbon nanotube (CNT) fibre fabrics and nanostructured metal oxides, γAl 2O3 and TiO 2, through ultrasound -assisted nanoparticle infiltration and sintering. In the resulting hybrids, a uniform distribution of porous metal oxide is firmly attached to the nanocarbon network while the flexibility, high conductivity and low-dimensional properties of the CNTs are preserved. These electrodes present a high porosity (105 -118 m2 g-1), notably low electrical ( 0,1 kΩ cm2) and low charge transfer resistance (4 Ω), thus enabling the infiltration of aqueous electrolytes and serving as current collector. In this work we built a large asymmetrical cylindrical CDI device solely made of these electrodes and conventional plastics. The cell provides, high a verage salt adsorption rates of 1. 16 mg g-1AM min-1 (0.23 mg g-1CDIunit min-1), low energy consumption (0.18 Wh g salt-1) and stable electrochemical performance above 50 cycles for brackish water desalination. 3 1. Introduction The alarming worldwide problems associated with the scarcity of freshwater are only expected to grow in the coming decades as a consequence of an increasing population and a lack of action to combat environmental concerns.1 Capacitive Deionization (CDI) is a promising desalination technology due to its low energy consumption and high efficiency.2 CDI is an electrochemical water treatment technology that removes salt ions and or charged ions by electrostatic adsorption using porous electrodes operating under an electrostatic potential. This water treatment technology is performed in two steps. During charging, ions are absor bed on the electrode surfaces enabling energy storage in the electrical double layer (EDL), following a process analogous to that of regular supercapacitors. In a second step, the system discharges releasing the ions into another stream (brine). By reversi ng the current cell voltage or short -circuiting the cell, part of the energy stored in the EDL can be recovered during discharge and used for subsequent CDI cycles, thus reducing the energy consumption of this water treatment process.1,3 6 Efficiency in CDI processes requires electrode materials with high salt adsorption capacity (SAC), high average salt adsorption rates (ASAR) , and is conducive to having cells with high round -trip efficiency in a corrosive environment. Nanocarbons play a prominent role in the quest to achieve these properties.7,8 Their inherently large specific surface area, high electrical conductivity and corrosion resistance makes them attractive electrode materials, particularly when combined with metal oxides (MOx) that increase hydrophilicity3,9,10 and ion selectivity.11 14 Much of the challenge has been related to developing methods to process nanocarbons and metal oxides into stable networks that can simultaneously maximise porosity and electrical conduct ivity for ion 4 removal from aqueous media.3,15 18 A po pular approach is to start with nanocarbons in dispersion and integrate the MOx through wet -chemical methods (hydrothermal, sol-gel, etc), followed by filtering, drying, and other steps before consolidation into fully -formed electrodes.19 The difficulty lies in forming an effective percolating network with small particles and limited control over the aggregation of the two phases upon solvent removal.19 Typical CDI properties for these materials are SAC of 5-20 mg g-1, ASAR of 0.5 -1.5 mg g-1 min-1 and specific energy consumption of 3-6 Wh g-1.20 22 In an alternative strategy, a highly -conducting percolated nanocarbon network is first produced and then used as a scaffold for the metal oxide. Separating these stages enables pre -assembly of nanocarbons in electrodes reaching electrical conductivity in the range of metals. Integration of the MOx can then be carried out in a controlled manner to maximise the electrolyte electrode interface at minimal thickness of the poorly -conducting active phase, increasing efficiency of energy storage and conversion processes.3,23 25 Applying the atomic layer deposition (ALD) methodology, Feng et al. were able to prepare TiO 2 CNT electrodes with a promising performance in terms of SAC, 5.1 mg g-1, ASAR, 0.5 -1.5 mg g-1 min-1, and energy con sumption 3 -6 Wh g-1.9 Other groups have favoured the use of fabrics of carbon nanotube fibres (CNTf) because of their combined electrical c onductivity approaching copper, high toughness for handling and large electrochemical stability .30,31 In our previous work, we introduced such a strategy by synthesizing electrodes based on γAl 2O3 CNTf and SiO 2 CNTf, and found a remarkable SAC (6.5 mg g-1) at low net energy consumption (0.3 Wh g-1) in an asymmetric CDI device.3 Here, we introduce a new asymmetric CDI cylindrical cell concept with a much higher capacity (1 3 mg g-1) at low energy consumption 5 (0.18 Wh g-1), largely by using TiO 2 CNTf as negative electrode. The TiO 2 nanostructured network formed contributes to electrolyte infiltration, ion selectivity (see SEI Fig. S1) 9,28 and other processes beneficial for cell performance.29,30 2. Experimental Section 2.1. Fabrication of Electrodes . The CNTf were synthesized by using the direct spinning chemical vapour deposition method, collected as a unidirectional fabric by winding the material
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	Phase segregation lubricates paste extrusion Richard T. Benders,1Menno Thomas,2, 3Thomas M.M. Bastiaansen,3Raoul Fix,1Mario Scheel,4Guido Bosch,3Sonja de Vries,3Jasper van der Gucht,1and Joshua A. Dijksman5, 1 1Physical Chemistry and Soft Matter, Wageningen University Research, The Netherlands 2Zetadec, Nudepark 73A, Wageningen, The Netherlands 3Animal Nutrition, Wageningen University Research, The Netherlands 4Synchrotron SOLEIL, Saint-Aubin, France 5Van der Waals-Zeeman Institute, Institute of Physics, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands (Dated: October 8, 2024) Extrusion is a critical process in the manufacturing of various organic materials, including animal feed 1 , human food 2 , pharmaceuticals 3 , and biomass for bioenergy 4 . During extrusion, a dense particle-fluid mixture, or paste , is pushed through a narrow channel under high pressure 5, 6 . Despite its widespread use, many questions remain about how particle-fluid interactions and frictional forces at the wall influence high-pressure paste flow 7, 8 , particularly whether laboratory- scale findings translate to more complex industrial settings 9 . Here, we quantify for the first time how a micrometer thin fluid lubrication layer emerges from particle-fluid interactions during the extrusion of organic biomass, controlling friction at the paste-channel interface. This lubrication layer forms through a pressure-induced phase segregation process 9 11 and is significantly thinner than the particle size 12 , affecting their contact dynamics, making friction at the interface tunable. Our results reveal how the thickness of the lubrication layer is influenced by paste composition, enhancing our fundamental understanding of phase segregation during industrial extrusion processes and offering potential pathways for reducing energy consumption and product failure 13 in the industrial material production. The flow behavior of concentrated suspensions and pastes remains a challenge to understand, affecting pro- cesses ranging from human food production and ad- ditive manufacturing to medical and clinical applica- tions 2, 10, 11, 14 19 . Pastes are mixtures of parti- cles and a small amount of liquid. During their extru- sion, these two-phase mixtures of particles and liquid are pressured into a pre-shaped channel, the die, to obtain a final product. Pressures used are 100s of MPa, high enough to induce particle deformation and bonding 20 . Optimization of the material and factory performance during this process happens via paste ingredient adjust- ments, die shape modification and process temperature and pressure alteration 6, 21 and is performed at a daily basis in many plants worldwide. Our fundamental micro- scopic understanding of the typically non-Newtonian flow behavior of pastes 7, 8 during high pressure extrusion is however very limited. Controlling the extrusion process is challenging due to the numerous tuning parameters in- volved 5, 6 , yet currently there is no physico-chemical framework that allows us to understand their interrelat- edness. Here we provide one new fundamental paste- flow mechanism that binds many extrusion parameters together. We show that many extrusion tuning parame- ters are fundamentally linked in their ability to tune an ultrathin liquid film that emerges during extrusion. The film is only micrometers thick, as it is located between the extrusion die and the extrudate. The frictional role of the film so determines the mechanical energy usage and temperature evolution during the extrusion process, thereby also controlling a large number of product qual- ity parameters. During paste extrusion, physical forces act on the solid-liquid mixture, deforming the particles and causing the solid particles and liquid fraction to undergo relative dis- placement. These phenomena often referred to as mi- gration , demixing or solid-liquid phase separation . In general, such solid-liquid separation is known to result in flow blockages, product inhomogeneity and product failure 13, 17, 22, 23 . It was conjectured long ago that also a beneficial liquid-rich layer can form between the wall of the die channel and the flowing paste 10 , re- sulting in self-lubricating paste flow. Such liquid lubri- cation layers are known to change sliding resistance by orders of magnitude 24, 25 , particularly in the so-called mixed -regime where a lubrication layer starts to reduce the solid-to-solid sliding friction 26 . As the lubrication layer affects friction or paste tribology , it influences the mechanical energy use and heat generated inside the ex- trusion channel at the (sub)micrometer length scale. In the extrusion die, precise tuning of both energy and tem- perature are necessary to induce and control agglomera- tion of the particulate mixture through various physical and chemical transitions, such as chemical reactions, melt transitions, and sintering 20 . Control over these tran- sitions is crucial in the formation of a high-quality end product 1, 2, 6, 20, 27 . The control over phase segrega- tion induced lubrication is thus an essential step in paste extrusion. Our post-extrusion surface liquid evaporation measurements quantify this phase segregation by mea- suring the lubrication film thickness, allowing for deep insight into the flow dynamics of pastes under pressure. The lubrication layer thickness was suggested to be only micrometers thick 2, 7, 8, 10 , a layer too thin to measure directly in any realistic extrusion process. It has thus so far been impossible to understand how thisarXiv:2410.04593v1 cond-mat.soft 6 Oct 2024 2 a 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 Time (s)00.010.020.030.040.05Evaporated water (kg kg)c 0 40 80 120 160 200406080100 RHout ( ) 𝑡sat Time (s)507090b RHin 𝜆 Drying setup RHout Air: RHin -1-0.500.51Surface height (µm)e 0 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 Δmc05101520253035Layer thickness , λ (µm)d Original pellet surface roughness Striated surface Lubrication layermass (t) f FIG. 1. Lubrication layer thickness increases with water use during extrusion of biomass pellets. a , During pellet manufacturing, ingredient mixtures are extruded through holes within a metal ring-die, forming cylindrically shaped pellets. The water from the steam conditioning ends up on the surface of the pellets in the high pressure extrustion due to solid-liquid phase segregation. The thickness of the lubrication layer is determined immediately after extrusion through a controlled evaporation measurement on freshly sampled pellets, recording sample mass and relative air humidity (RH). b, Evaporation measurements show that an initial saturation period (RH 95 , denoted as tsat) is
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Optimizing Bio-energy Supply Chain to Achieve Alternative Energy Targets Abstract In response to global warming and the dwindling reservoirs of fossil fuels, Thailand has increasingly embraced alternative energy sources. Central to its energy development strategy is the Alternative Energy Development Plan (AEDP), which aims to reduce energy intensity, capitalize on residual resources, and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. While significant strides have been made in meeting various consumption targets set forth by the AEDP, notable challenges persist, particularly in the realms of bio-mass-derived electricity generation, bio-gas utilization, and bio-ethanol production from bio-mass. Therefore, this study delves into the factors contributing to the shortfall in achieving AEDP targets and proposes strategies to enhance the efficiency of the bio-energy supply chain. Leveraging mathematical and linear programming techniques, our research optimizes the supply chain dynamics, accounting for monthly supplier profiles spanning 77 provinces, 17 distinct biomasses, and 427 bio-energy plants equipped with diverse energy conversion technologies. Our findings indicate that Thailand currently boasts adequate bio-mass resources to fulfill the electricity and bio-ethanol targets outlined in the AEDP provided enhancements are made to supply chain efficiency. To fully realize the objectives of the AEDP, we recommend augmenting bio-mass cultivation efforts and implementing new power plant installations. Additionally, we advocate for the consideration of high-methane content fuels, such as solid waste, as a means to alleviate bio-mass demand. This study underscores the paramount importance of strategic planning and optimization in propelling Thailand towards its alternative energy ambitions while surmounting supply chain impediments. Keywords: Bio-energy, Energy, Optimizing, Supply Chain 1. Introduction In recent years, Thailand has been addressing energy and ecological challenges, spurred by rising energy costs, dwindling fossil fuel reserves, and environmental concerns, including natural disasters and greenhouse gas emissions. To mitigate these issues, there has been a growing interest in renewable energy sources due to their lower carbon emissions and eco-friendliness 1 3 . Projections indicate a significant increase in the adoption of renewable energy, potentially supplanting fossil fuels as the primary energy source. In line with this vision, Thailand has actively engaged in various regional and international initiatives, such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), ASEAN Economic Community (AEC), and the Paris Agreement. As part of its commitments, Thailand has pledged to reduce energy intensity per Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 30 by 2036 compared to 2010 levels, in accordance with APEC guidelines. Additionally, under the ASEAN framework, Thailand has committed to promoting renewable energy trade among member countries. Domestically, Thailand has devised the Thailand Integrated Energy Blueprint (TIEB) , overseen by the Ministry of Energy (MOE), to guide its energy development endeavors. This blueprint undergoes periodic review and refinement to align with Thailand s evolving economic, security, and environmental priorities. The TIEB comprises five interconnected plans the Power Development Plan (PDP), Energy Efficiency Development Plan (EEDP or EEP), Alternative Energy Development Plan (AEDP), Oil Plan, and Gas Plan, each tailored to specific objectives. However, the AEDP for instance, outlines renewable energy deployment targets and consumption ratios over a 20-year horizon. While progress has been made in realizing alternative energy goals, some targets remain unmet, as evidenced by the disparities between actual and targeted consumption in 2021. Notably, electricity generation from small hydropower, bio-mass, bio-gas, solid waste, and bio-ethanol falls short of the 2021 targets, with varying degrees of shortfall ranging from 11.14 to 34.46 . In contrast, wind power and bio-diesel have surpassed their respective consumption targets. Despite the shortfall in specific sectors, Thailand has achieved its overall alternative energy production target, with wind power compensating for deficits in other areas. However, the root causes hindering the realization of the year-2021 AEDP goal in actual electricity consumption derived from bio-mass, bio-gas (from energy crops), and bio-ethanol. Therefore, utilizing the Python programming language, we employ mathematical programming techniques to simulate the logistical operations within Thailand s bio-energy supply chain. Our analytical framework encompasses bio-mass requirements, production capacities, and logistics flow throughout the supply chain. Through simulation, we aim to understand the current state of the bio-energy supply chain and identify areas for improvement to align with the AEDP targets. Our objectives are as follows: 1Jubin Thomas 1Independent Researcher, Media, Pennsylvania, USA, Email: jubin.thomas ieee.org Develop a mathematical model and simulate Thailand s bio-energy supply chain, encompassing bio-mass, bio-gas (from energy crops), and ethanol production. Investigate the underlying issues contributing to the shortfall in real bio-energy consumption compared to the AEDP target for the year 2021. Provide recommendations to enhance Thailand s bio-energy supply chain to meet the AEDP objectives by 2021. While various alternative energy sources contribute to Thailand s energy landscape, our focus is specifically on electricity generated from bio-mass, bio-gas from energy crops, and bio-ethanol production from cassava and molasses. It s important to note that our study excludes small hydropower, bio-gas from non-energy-crop sources, and solid waste. Bio-mass feedstocks originate solely from within Thailand, sourced from the country s six major economic crops rice, sugarcane, corn, cassava, oil palm, and coconut, resulting in a total of 17 bio-mass types considered in our analysis. Therefore, in our optimization approach, we assume retailers can distribute all purchased electricity from bio-energy power plants to end consumers, without accounting for limitations in electrical transmission lines. The paper is as follows; related studies are shown in the following section. The methods and materials are detailed in Section 3. The experimental analysis is carried out in Section 4, and in Section 5, we provide some conclusions and plans for future research. 2. Related Works Thailand, located in Southeast Asia, exports diverse agricultural products including rice, sugarcane, corn, cassava, rubber trees, oil palm, and coconuts. These crops generate significant bio-mass residues, such as rice husks, bagasse, corn leaves, cassava rhizomes, oil palm bunches, and coconut shells, which offer potential for sustainable energy production according to 4 . Despite this, the full utilization of agricultural bio-mass remains largely untapped, highlighting opportunities for both energy generation and waste management. Thailand s industrial heat energy, as detailed in 5 , derives significantly from renewable sources within the agricultural sector, including sugar,
__label__energy	1 Architected Porous Metals in Electrochemical Energy Storage Vladimir Egorov1 and Colm O Dwyer1,2,3,4 1School of Chemistry, University College Cork, Cork, T12 YN60, Ireland 2 Micro -Nano Systems Centre, Tyndall National Institute, Lee Maltings, Cork, T12 R5CP, Ireland 3AMBER CRANN, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland 4Environmental Research Institute, University College Cork, Lee Road, Cork T23 XE10, Ireland Abstract Porous metallic structures are regularly used in electrochemical energy storage devices as supports, current collectors or active electrode materials. Bulk metal porosification, dealloying, welding or chemical synthesis routes invol ving crystal growth or s elf-assembly for example, can sometimes provide limited control of porous length scale, ordering, periodicity, reproducibility, porosity and surface area. Additive manufacturing and 3D printing has shown the potential to revolutionize the fabrication of ar chitected metals many forms, allowing complex geometries not usually possible by traditional methods, but enabling complete design freedom of a porous metal based on the required physical or chemical property to be exploited. We discuss properties of porou s metal structures in EES devices and provide some opinions on how architected metals may alleviate issues with electrochemically active porous metal current collectors, and provide opportunities for optimum design based on electrochemical characteristics required by batteries, supercapacitors or other electrochemical devices. Corresponding author: Email: c.odwyer ucc.ie ; Tel: 353 (0)21 4902732 Keywords: Porous Metals , Current Collectors, Additive Manufacturing (AM), Metal foams, Electrochemical Energy Storage (EES), Batteries, Supercapacitors , Metallic Lattice 2 1. Introduction Porous metals, in ordered or random form, have been a mainstay in electrochemical science and technology 1-4 . Porous metals and metallic foam have been used as high surface area electrodes, current collectors, substrates, counter electrodes or even faraday cages. We now have a wide range of methods to fabricate porous metal with different porosity leng th scales, a nd with different degrees of ordering or periodicity 5-8 . While certain metals, their alloys and their physical properties fundamentally limit the range of latticed or porous structures that can be formed, the choice of metal for electrochemical energy st orage applications 9-12 is usually based on surface activity, passivity, electrical conductivity and weight the length scale of porosity 13 , and the type s of porous ordering are not always obtainable a la carte for the electrochemical application when open -worked from the bulk metal . We examine the nature of porous metal formation, address some limitation for transition metals and noble metals in foam, lattice or porous form 14 for electrochemical energy storage devices and discuss how the choice of metal and the method of fabrication influence the nature of the porosity and their relative benefit in energy storage devices . While directed self -assembly from chemical routes, sacrificial templates 15 , dealloying approaches, or macropore formation metho ds can create a wide variety of porous structures, including metals, replication and mi nimization (or elimination) of structural defects is a persistent problem when they are used as electrodes 16, 17 . Additive manufacturing methods, including 3D printing, has evolved to allow large and small structures to be engineered to provide long range periodic or aperiodic metallic porous structures 18- 21 that are, by comparison, almost defect free in their lattice structure. Accurate replication of any por ous structure will allow for better comparison between supercapacitor, battery and other electrodes (e.g. water splitting and many more electrochemical process es 22 ) to be quantitatively compared and assessed, provide a defined surface area for determinin g intrinsic geometrical surface area 23-25 effects in electrochemical processes, and allow us to choose metals and porous structures to take advantage of specific physics properties useful to the application, e.g. toughness, thermal conductivity, flexibil ity, surface activity etc. Here, we provide a summary perspective on porous metal structures using in electrochemical energy storage (EES), particular supercapacitors and batteries, and the primary methods used to dat e to make these porous metals. We discu ss periodic porous metals and porous metal foams, the main methods used to make these structures, and provide our opinion on the advent of additive manufacturing for metallic lattice or porous metal formation for EES devices . We also discuss the merits of some additive manufacturing approach es that can create me tals in more complex and useful structure s that cannot be achieved form porosification of bulk metals, dealloying and chemical assembly routes for example . These methods for porous metals widen the c hoice of active materials for electrochemical applications, or indeed as passive, conductive current collectors that do not contribute unwanted parasitic activity. 2. Porous Metal Fabrication Methods Metallic p orous materials can exist in a variety of forms, such as foams, sponges, micro nanolattices, micro nanoarrays etc. 19-21, 23, 24 Structurally, porous materials can be categorized as stochastic (random) and ordered (mostly periodic, but aperiodic 3D -tiling is also possib le), depending on the 3 randomness of pore size and arrangement (Fig. 1a) 5, 20 . Examples of stochastic structures include metal foams and sponges, whereas micro or nanolattices belong to the ordered category. In order to achieve high accessible specific surface area and create continuous diffusion pathways, which is important for EES applications, the porous structures should ideally be open -cell 5 , i.e. internal pores should be well - interconnected minimizing the number of isolated cavities. Complete interconnectivity is more easily achieved in the engineered lattices and arrays particularly when structure is imposed by design. For other types of structures such as bottom -up- or self -assembled for example, interconnectivity is a function of the method and conditions of fabrication. Stochastic materials are usually isotropic at scales larger than a cell size, however, periodic structures can be highly anisotropic when the spatial arrangement or dimensions of unit blocks have a prevalent direction 20 . Metallic foams and sponges (open -cell foams) are traditionally produced using two main approaches: by creating pores in the bulk material or by fusing many separate cells into a single structure 26 . The former approach in turn can be implemented using
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 Recent advance s on CO 2-assisted synthesis of metal nanoparticles for the upgrading of biomass -derived compounds Zhiwei Jiang a, 1, Yongjian Zeng a, 1, Ruichao Guo a, Lu Lin a, Rafael Luque c, d, , Kai Yan a, b, a School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Sun Yat -Sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China b Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China c Departamento de Quí mica Orgá nica, Universidad de Có rdoba, Campus Universitario de Rabanales, Edificio Marie Curie (C3), Có rdoba E -14014, Spain d Department of Natural Sciences, Mid Sweden University, Holmgatan 10, 85170 Sundsvall, Sweden Corresponding author . Corresponding author . E-mail addresses : qo2balua uco.es (R. Luque ), yank9 mail.sysu.edu.cn (K. Yan). 1 The a uthors contributed equally to this work. Abstract: Nanostructured catalysts have attracted the increased attention for biomass conversion into high -valued chemicals due to the rapid depletion of fossil resources and increasingly severe environmental issues. Supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO 2) fluid is an attractive medium for synthesizing nanostructured materials due to its favorable properties. In this review, the properties of scCO 2 and the roles of scCO 2 in the fabrication of metal nanoparticles were assessed in detailed. A general overview of the synthesis of different types of metal nanoparticles (including metal oxide nanoparticles) using scCO 2 and the relationship between the structure of the obtained metal nanoparticles and the preparation conditions such as reaction temperature and pressure, 2 types of metal precursors, and deposition time are system summarized and compared in tables. Besides, compared to the meatal catalysts using the conventional methods, the catalysts obtained using scCO 2 exhibited excellent catalytic performance on biomass conversion reactions, mainly focused on oxidation, hydrogenation reactions. Finally, opportunities and challenges of metal nanoparticle preparation using scCO 2 for biomass valorization to chemicals and liquid fuels are highlighted. This review could be help ful for the rational design of more efficient metal catalysts for the selective synthesis of fine chemicals and fuels from biomass -derived chemicals. Keywords: Supercritical CO 2; Metal nanoparticles; Biomass conversion ; Catalytic system ; Renewable chemicals ; Mechanism Word count : 8113 words Abbreviations : scCO 2: supercritical carbon dioxide ; NPs: nanoparticles ; SCFD: supercritical fluid deposition ; SCFs : supercritical fluid ; Tc: critical temperature ; Pc: critical pressure ; GO: graphene oxide ; Pd(hfac) 2: palladium hexafluoroacetylacetonate ; RFA: resorcinol formaldehyde aerogel ; CFD : chemical fluid deposition ; CNT: carbon nanotube ; PET: poly(ethylene terephthalate) ; LA: levulinic acid ; GVL: γ-valerolactone ; TPA: terephthalic acid ; BAL: b enzyl alcohol ; TBHP: tert-butyl hydroperoxide ; PMS: peroxymonosulfate ; MWCNTs : multiwalled carbon nanotubes ; CVs: cyclic voltammograms . 1. Introduction The rapid depletion of fossil resources and increasingly severe environmental pollution have prompted the wide -ranging search for alternative feedstocks and 3 technologies to build a sustainable, renewable society 1-3 . Many countries have launch ed some green strategies to achieve this goal by developing renewable chemicals and clean production technologies. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development , which aimed at achieving sustainable development goals , has been adopted by the United Nations in 2015 4 . China strives to achieve peak CO 2 emissions before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060 5 . Biomass has been deemed one promising renewable alternative to carbon -neutral energy that can be utilized as feedstock s to fabricat e renewable fuels and value -added chemicals 6-8 . Recently , specific feedstocks such as carbohydrates 9 , triglycerides 10 , glycerol 11 , 5- hydroxymethylfurfural 12 , cellulose 13 , hemicelluloses and pentoses 14 , lignin 15 , and lignocellulose 16 through chemical catalytic technology have been widely exploited as platform chemicals to product efficiently various chemicals and biofuels for different industrial app lications . During the biomass conversion, the abundant C O- H, C-C, and C-O bonds in biomass could be activated using multiple multifunctional catalysts through oxidation or reduction reaction to generate various fuels and value - added chemicals 17-19 . Among these catalysts, metal -based catalysts such as ruthenium (Ru) , platinum (Pt) , gold (Au) , palladium (Pd) , iridium ( Ir), rhodium ( Rh) , copper ( Cu), nickel (Ni), and cobalt ( Co) metals have been extensively applied for biomass catalytic conversion reaction (oxidation, hydrogenation, ammonization) 20- 29 . Generally, metal -based catalysts nanoparticles (NPs) can be fabricated throng the deposition of metal NPs on different supports using different techniques, such as incipient wet impregnation 30 , homogeneous deposition precipitation 31 , chemical 4 vapor deposition 32 , photo -assisted depositions 33 , and deposition -precipitation method 34 . Supercritical fluid deposition ( SCFD) has become a bright , environmentally friendly method because of needless organic solvent , low viscosity, and high diffusivity , using which various metal and metal oxide materials with high dispers ion and ultrafine particles have been produced . Well-defined nanoscale metal can be deposited on the solid support by reducing metal salts or organometallic precursors during the SCFD process. The hydrogen as a reducing agent allows the synthesis of pure metal nanoparticles with a green method without using organic solvent 35 . Moreover, thermal decomposition and chemical reduction under different atmosphere s can also occur after deposition 36,37 . Several studies have revealed that metal particles with controll able properties such as size distribution, morphology, catalytic activity, porosity, density, and others could be generated by changing the conditions during the SCFD process 38-40 . Among supercritical fluid compounds , supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO 2) is a green solvent because of its nontoxic, renewable, and economical properties 41 . Furthermore, u sing scCO 2 to fabricate high-performance catalysts has been pinpointed. Until recently, some reviews have systematically reported the development and synthesis of metal materials using scCO 2 for various applications 42,43 . However, summaries on the prepared metal materials through scCO 2 SCFD method for volatilizing biomass -derived compounds are rarely reported. This review focuse s on the recent advance in CO 2-assisted
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	2D Janus Niobium Oxydihalide NbO XY: Multifunctional High-Mobility Piezoelectric Semiconductor for Electronics, Photonics and Sustainable Energy Applications Tong Su,1, 2, 3Ching Hua Lee,4San-Dong Guo,5Guangzhao Wang,6Wee-Liat Ong,7, 8Liemao Cao,9Weiwei Zhao,1, 2, Shengyuan A. Yang,3and Yee Sin Ang3,y 1Sauvage Laboratory for Smart Materials, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen 518055, China 2Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Flexible Printed Electronics Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen 518055, China 3Science, Mathematics and Technology, Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore 487372 4Department of Physics, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117542 5School of Electronic Engineering, Xi an University of Posts and Telecommunications, Xi an 710121, China 6Key Laboratory of Extraordinary Bond Engineering and Advanced Materials Technology of Chongqing, School of Electronic Information Engineering, Yangtze Normal University, Chongqing 408100, China 7ZJU-UIUC Institute, College of Energy Engineering, Zhejiang University, Jiaxing, Haining, Zhejiang, 314400, China 8State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310027, China 9College of Physics and Electronic Engineering, Hengyang Normal University, Hengyang 421002, China Two-dimensional (2D) niobium oxydihalide NbOI 2has been recently demonstrated as an excellent in-plane piezoelectric and nonlinear optical material. Here we show that Janus niobium oxydihalide, NbOXY(X, Y Cl, Br, I and X 6 Y), is a multifunctional anisotropic semiconductor family with exceptional piezoelectric, electronic, photocatalytic and optical properties. NbO XYare stable and exible monolayers with band gap around the visible light regime of 1:9 eV. The anisotropic carrier mobility of NbO XY lies in the range of 103 104cm2V 1s 1, which represents some of the highest among 2D semiconductors of bandgap 2 eV. Inversion symmetry breaking in Janus NbOXYgenerates sizable out-of-plane d31piezoelectric response while still retaining a strong in-plane piezoelectricity. Remarkably, NbO XY exhibits an additional out-of-plane piezoelectric response,d32as large as 0.55 pm V. G 0W0-BSE calculation further reveals the strong linear optical dichroism of NbO XYin the visible-to-ultraviolet regime. The optical absorption peaks of 14 18 in the deep UV regime (5 6 eV) outperform the vast majority of other 2D materials. The high carrier mobility, strong optical absorption, sizable built-in electric eld and band alignment compatible with overall water splitting further suggest the strengths of NbO XYin solar-to-hydrogen conversion. We further propose a directional stress sensing device to demonstrate how the out- of-plane piezoelectricity can be harnessed for functional device applications. Our ndings unveil NbOXYas an exceptional multifunctional 2D semiconductor for exible electronics, optoelectronics, UV photonics, piezoelectronics and sustainable energy applications. I. INTRODUCTION Piezoelectricity is a phenomenon in which electrical (mechanical) signals are generated in a material in re- sponse to an external mechanical (electrical) stimuli. Piezoelectric materials, including crystals 1 , polymer 2 , bi-molecules 3 and 2D materials 4 , play a critical role in electromechanical and mechanoelectrical device technology, such as sensors and actuators 5 10 . Along- side with solid-state energy conversion strategies, such as solar cell 11 , thermoelectricity 12 and triboelec- tricity 13 , piezoelectricity represents another promising contender for salvaging electrical energy from mechani- cal motion 14 . Materials with simultaneous presence of excellent piezoelectric, electrical, mechanical and op- tical properties are particularly much sought-after due Corresponding Author. wzhao hit.edu.cn yCorresponding Author. yeesin ang sutd.edu.sgto their enormous technological usefulness for develop- ingmultifunctional devices that synergize piezoelectric- ity with other functionalities. Two-dimensional (2D) materials o er an exciting plat- form for the development of next-generation piezoelec- tronic technology 1, 16 . The atomically-thin nature of 2D materials and the enormous design space uniquely enabled by van der Waals heterostructure engineering 17, 18 o er a new paradigm for designing ultimately- compact and high-performance piezoelectric devices in the2D Flatland . Myriads of 2D in-plane and out-of- plane piezoelectric materials have been reported recently 19 , including TMDCs 14, 20 24 , hBN 25 , graphene nitride 26 ), -In2Se3, doped graphene 27 , and multi- layer MoS 2on PbTiO 3 28 ). The existence 2D materials with simultaneous in-plane and out-of-plane piezoelec- tricity, such as Janus transition metal dichalcogeneides (TMDCs) 29, 30 , Janus silicon dichaolcogenide 31 as well as III-V 32, 33 and Janus III-VI monolayers 34, 35 , further enriches the application potential of 2D piezoelec-arXiv:2211.00560v2 cond-mat.mtrl-sci 3 Nov 2022 2 NbOI2NbOClINbOClBrNbOBrI(a)(b)(c)(d)Janus Niobium OxydihalideMonolayers d31or d32(pm V) d11(pm V)d32d31NbOClBrNbOClINbOBrINbOClBrNbOClI NbOBrI MoSSeMoSeTeMoSTeAlAs AlSbGaPGaAsInPInAs Ga2SSeIn2SSeGa2SeTeGa2STeGaInSe2GaInS2 In2SeTeGaInTe2Si2SSeSi2STeSi2SeTe -0.100.000.100.200.300.400.500.60 0204060(g) 123d31123d32123d11(f) Absorption ( )NbOClBrNbOClINbOBrIH-HfO2BNH-GeO2H-SnO2T-GeO2T-SnO2T-HfO20510152018.2 14.7 14.2 10.4 5.7 2.8 2.8 3.0 0.9 3.2 5.6 eV6.3 eV5.9 eV5.0 eV(h) NbOIBrCl(e) Eg(eV)μ(cm2V-1s-1)104 102103105 NbOI2NbOClBrNbOClINbOBrIB8Si4B8Ge4B8Sn4PtSe2Hf2Si2Te8Ti2Ge2Te8Ti2Si2Te8 Zr2Ge2Te8Zr2Si2Te8 MoS2WS2BPAs2Ge2H2Zr2Te2P4PdSe2As4Au2Te2GaNGe2Te2InAsα-AsPα-SbPβ-AsPβ-SbPβ-BiPβ-SbAsβ-BiAs β-SbBi100100010000100000 0123 FIG. 1. Lattice structures and highlights of the electrical, piezoelectronic and optical properties of Janus NbOXY.(a) to (d) shows the lattice structures of non-Janus NbOI 2and the Janus monolayers of NbOClBr, NbOClI, NbOBrI, respectively, in which the inversion symmetry in the out-of-plane direction is broken due to the nonequivalent halogen atoms. (e) Comparison of electrical mobility of various 2D semiconductors obtained from DFT calculations. The NbO XY monolayers mobility is in the range of 103 104cm2V 1s 1. (f) Schematic drawings of the d11,d31andd32piezoelectric responses. The thin arrows (green) denote the direction of mechanical stress and the thick arrows (black, blue and red) denote the direction of the electric charge polarization ( d11,d31,d32). (g) Piezoelectric responses d11andd31(ord32) for various 2D materials. (h) Peak optical absorbance of NbO XY in comparison of other 2D materials 15 . The frequency of the peak absorbance are marked in blue font directly below the monolayer labels. tric materials. The directionally decoupled nature of the mechanical stimuli and the corresponding electrical re- sponses is particularly useful due to their compatibility with the stacking design of conventional CMOS and van der Waals heterostructure engineering 36 . Recent high throughput searches 37, 38 has estab- lished niobium oxydihalide monolayers (NbO X2,X Cl, Br, or I) as an exceptional piezoelectric 2D ma- terial family. Monolayer NbOI 2 an experimentally 39, 40 fabricated air-stable 2D semiconductors with anisotropic electrical, mechanical and optical properties 41 43 has an exceedingly large piezoelectric response ofd11 45pm V . Out-of-plane piezoelectricity is, how- ever, strictly forbidden in the NbOX 2monolayer family due to the lattice centrosymmetry, which severely lim- its the potential of NbOX 2in
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	1 Where and How is Entropy Generated in Solar Energy Conversion Systems? Bolin Liao1 1Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA, 93106, USA Abstract The hotness of the sun and the coldness of the outer space are inexhaustible thermodynamic resources for human beings. From a thermodynamic point of view, any energy conversion systems that receive energy from the sun and or dissipate energy to the universe are heat engines with photons as the working fluid and can be analyzed using the concept of entropy. While entropy analysis provides a particularly convenient way to understand the efficiency limits, it is typically taught in the context of thermodynamic cycles among quasi-equilibrium states and its generalization to solar energy conversion systems running in a continuous and non-equilibrium fashion is not straightforward. In this educational article, we present a few examples to illustrate how the concept of photon entropy, combined with the radiative transfer equation, can be used to analyze the local entropy generation processes and the efficiency limits of different solar energy conversion systems. We provide explicit calculations for the local and total entropy generation rates for simple emitters and absorbers, as well as photovoltaic cells, which can be readily reproduced by students. We further discuss the connection between the entropy generation and the device efficiency, particularly the exact spectral matching condition that is shared by infinite-junction photovoltaic cells and reversible thermoelectric materials to approach their theoretical efficiency limit. To whom correspondence should be addressed. Email: bliao ucsb.edu 2 I. Introduction In the context of the radiative energy transfer, the Sun can be approximated as a blackbody at a temperature of 6000 K1, and the outer space is filled with the cosmic microwave background at an effective temperature of 2.7 K. Any energy conversion devices on the Earth that extract useful work from the incoming solar radiation and or emit radiation to the outer space can be analyzed thermodynamically2 as heat engines. Indeed, numerous previous studies have proposed various efficiency limits3 11 for these devices using thermodynamic arguments, as summarized by several excellent monographs and textbooks12 15. A key concept in these arguments is the entropy of radiation, which can be traced back to Planck16 and was later discussed by Landau17. Although the entropy of radiation has the same thermodynamic meaning as the entropy of other working fluids (e.g. Carnot engines can be constructed18 using a photon gas as the working fluid), it is not straightforward for students to understand the entropy generation and transport processes in radiative energy conversion devices that run in a continuous fashion. Despite the existence of extensive treatments of the thermodynamics of thermal radiation in the pedagogical literature2,19 22, explicit calculations of the entropy generation locally in radiative energy conversion devices have not been provided. In this article, we present a general framework to calculate the local and total entropy generation rates in radiative energy conversion devices using the concept of photon entropy and the radiative transfer equation23 25, and provide several examples to illustrate the entropy generation process in simple devices that can be taught in courses of thermodynamics and heat transfer. At the thermal equilibrium, the energy and entropy densities of the blackbody radiation can be calculated by counting the number of available modes of electromagnetic (EM) waves and the photon occupation number for each mode15,26. In a macroscopic medium with a refractive index 𝑛, 3 the number of available modes of EM waves per volume and per frequency interval is given by the optical density of states 𝐷(𝜔) () ,(, where 𝜔 is the angular frequency and 𝑐 is the speed of light in the vacuum. At the thermal equilibrium with a temperature 𝑇, the number of photons 𝑁(𝜔) occupying each available mode is given by the Bose-Einstein distribution 𝑁0(𝜔) 12𝑒ℏ5678 1:;, where ℏ is the reduced Planck constant, 𝑘 is the Boltzmann constant and ℏ𝜔 is the energy of a photon. Therefore, the total energy density of the blackbody radiation at the thermal equilibrium can be calculated as 𝐸0 ℏ𝜔𝑁0(𝜔)𝐷(𝜔)𝑑𝜔AB0, (1) and the Stefan-Boltzmann law of the blackbody emissive power can be derived from this integration26. If we treat the photons occupying each mode as molecules in a box of gas, the entropy associated with the blackbody radiation can be calculated using standard procedures in the equilibrium statistical mechanics27. Particularly, when the intensity of the blackbody radiation is low, the photons can be treated as independent bosons, due to the small cross section of photon-photon interactions. Under this condition, Rosen28 derived the expression of entropy at the thermal equilibrium for an EM wave mode occupied by 𝑁(𝜔) independent photons: 𝑠(𝜔) 𝑘 (1 𝑁)ln(1 𝑁) 𝑁ln𝑁 . (2) This dependence of the entropy on the photon occupation number is plotted in Fig. 1(a). At the thermal equilibrium, 𝑁(𝜔) 𝑁0(𝜔), and the equilibrium value for the mode specific entropy is 𝑠0(𝜔) 𝑘 (1 𝑁0)ln(1 𝑁0) 𝑁0ln𝑁0 𝑁0ℏ)I 𝑘 ln21 𝑒Jℏ5678:. (3) An integration over all available modes leads to the total entropy density of the blackbody radiation at the thermal equilibrium 4 𝑆0 L𝑠0(𝜔)𝐷(𝜔)𝑑𝜔AB0 1𝑇Lℏ𝜔𝑁0(𝜔)𝐷(𝜔)𝑑𝜔AB0 L𝑘 ln21 𝑒Jℏ)M7I:𝑛N𝜔O𝜋O𝑐N𝑑𝜔AB0 𝐸0𝑇 𝑛N3𝜋O𝑐N𝑇Lℏ𝜔N1𝑒ℏ)M7I 1𝑑𝜔AB0 RSI TNI ℏ𝜔𝑁0(𝜔)𝐷(𝜔)𝑑𝜔AB0 URSNI, (4) where integration by parts is used from line 2 to line 3. The extra factor of TN, as compared to the more familiar relation 𝑆0 RSI for the energy exchange with a thermal reservoir, was first shown by Planck16. It creates a paradoxical scenario as pointed out by Würfel24. Suppose a black emitter is in thermal equilibrium with a thermal reservoir at a temperature 𝑇 and emits thermal radiation to the environment at the same time. Assume a heat flux 𝑄 is received by the emitter from the reservoir, and the associated entropy flux is WI. At the steady state, the same amount of heat flux 𝑄 must be emitted to the environment, carrying an outgoing entropy flux of UNWI, indicating that a net Figure 1 (a) The entropy of a photon mode as determined by the occupation number 𝑁 of the mode. (b) The change of
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	1 An Efﬁcient and Incentive-Compatible Mechanism for Energy Storage Markets Bharadwaj Satchidanandan and Munther A. Dahleh Abstract A key obstacle to increasing renewable energy pen- etration in the power grid is the lack of utility-scale storage capacity. Transportation electriﬁcation has the potential to over- come this obstacle since Electric Vehicles (EVs) that are not in transit can provide battery storage as a service to the grid. This is referred to as EV-Power grid integration, and could potentially be a key milestone in the pathway to decarbonize the electricity and the transportation sectors. We ﬁrst show that if EV-Power grid integration is not done carefully, then contrary to improving the cost efﬁciency of operating the grid, it could in fact be counterproductive to it. This fundamentally occurs due to two phenomena operating in tandem the randomness of EV usage patterns and the possibility of strategic behavior by EV operators. We present a market-based solution to address this issue. Speciﬁcally, we develop a mechanism for energy storage markets using which the system operator can efﬁciently integrate a ﬂeet of strategic EVs with random usage patterns into the grid, utilize them for storage, and satisfy the demand at minimum possible cost. Index Terms Storage markets, Electric Vehicles, Stochastic deadlines, Incentive compatible mechanism. I. I NTRODUCTION A major impediment to high renewable energy penetration in the power grid is the scarcity of energy storage capacity in the grid. Utility-scale battery storage is expensive at current technology, and so any energy that is generated must be con- sumed immediately. This paradigm could change substantially with increased Electric Vehicle (EV) penetration since EVs that are not in transit can provide battery storage as a service to the grid. Prior studies estimate that on an average, a car is parked for more than 95 of the time 1 , indicating the huge potential for EVs to double as energy storage resources in the grid. As an illustration, take the example of the state of Massachusetts. It consumes an average of 146GWh of electric energy per day 2 . On the other hand, the battery capacity of a Tesla Model S EV is about 100kWh. This implies that about 1:4million EVs possess enough battery capacity to power Massachusetts for an entire day. This amounts to less than 64 of the vehicles registered in Massachusetts today 3 . The situation is similar in most other parts of the US and the world, indicating that even moderate levels of EV penetration could provide signiﬁcant storage capacity. The time periods during which an EV can lease its battery to the grid are private knowledge of the EV operator. In particular, it is unknown to the Independent System Operator (ISO). However, the ISO requires this information to optimally operate the grid, or more precisely, to determine the optimal power dispatch of the generators and the optimal storage schedule of the EVs. Consequently, the ISO requests the EVoperators to report to it in the day-ahead market the time periods during which they can lease their battery the following day. However, this brings forth two challenges that need to be addressed. The ﬁrst challenge is that the travel times of people are in general random, and so the EV operators may not precisely know in the day-ahead market the time periods during which they can lease their batteries the following day. Rather, they may know these time periods only with some uncertainty. To account for this, we model the time periods during which an EV can lease its battery as a random variable, and require that the EV operators only report the probability distribution of this random variable in the day-ahead market. The second challenge is that the EV operators could be strategic, and so they may not report the aforementioned probability distribution truthfully. As we elaborate in Section III, each EV operator has associated with it a utility function, and the EV operators bid strategically so as to maximize their respective utilities. Moreover, having bid some probability distribution in the day-ahead market, an EV may not remain connected to the grid until its deadline the following day if there is possibility for it to obtain a higher utility by doing so than by disconnecting at its deadline. Such behavior could po- tentially be counterproductive to the cost- and energy-efﬁcient operation of the grid. The following example illustrates this issue. Example 1. Suppose that a day consists of two time periods, and suppose that the demand sequence dof the load in these time periods is d f0;1g:Let the production function cgof the generator be such that cg(f1;0g) 0 andcg(f0;1g) 2: That is, it costs the generator 0to produce 1Jof energy at time period 1and0Jof energy at time period 2, and so on. The costcgfor all other 2-tuples is inﬁnite. We suppose that this generator has a low ramping rate a characteristic that is typical of high-efﬁciency generators and so its power dispatch must be scheduled well in advance of the time of power delivery. Speciﬁcally, its power dispatch must be scheduled in the day-ahead market. The system also consists of a reserve generator which has a high ramping rate which can produce and sell energy in the spot market to balance real-time demand-supply mismatches. Let the production function csof the reserves be such that cs(f0;0g) 0 andcs(f0;1g) 11:The costcsfor all other 2-tuples is inﬁnite. Suppose that there is only one EV in the system with a battery capacity of 1J. As we elaborate in Section III, the usage pattern of an EV on any given day is speciﬁed byarXiv:2012.11540v1 eess.SY 21 Dec 2020 2 a quantity known as its deadline on that day. An EV s deadline on a given day is deﬁned as the time period until which the EV can lease its battery to the grid on that day. Then, the usage pattern of an EV being random is equivalent to its deadline being random. Suppose that the EV s deadline takes the value 1with probability pand the value 2with probability 1
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	Preprint Sept. 1, 2020 1 Solar Thermoradiative-Photovoltaic Energy Conversion Eric J. Tervo,a,1 William A. Callahan,a,b Eric S. Toberer,a,b Myles A. Steiner,a and Andrew J. Fergusona aNational Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401 bDepartment of Physics, Colorado School of Mines, Golden, CO 80401 1eric.tervo nrel.gov We propose a solar thermal energy conversion system consisting of a solar absorber, a thermoradiative cell or negative illumination photodiode, and a photovoltaic cell. Because it is a heat engine, this system can also be paired with thermal storage to provide reliable electricity generation. Heat from the solar absorber drives radiative recombination current in the thermoradiative cell, and its emitted light is absorbed by the photovoltaic cell to provide an additional photocurrent. Based on the principle of detailed balance, we calculate a limiting solar conversion efficiency of 85 for fully concentrated sunlight and 45 for one sun with an absorber and single-junction cells of equal areas. Ideal and nonideal solar thermoradiative-photovoltaic systems outperform solar thermophotovoltaic converters for low bandgaps and practical absorber temperatures. Their performance enhancement results from a high tolerance to nonradiative generation recombination and an ability to minimize radiative heat losses. We show that a realistic device with all major losses could achieve increases in solar conversion efficiency by up to 7.9 (absolute) compared to a solar thermophotovoltaic device under low optical concentration. Our results indicate that these converters could serve as efficient heat engines for low cost single axis tracking systems. Keywords: solar energy, thermal storage, thermoradiative, thermophotovoltaic To achieve an electricity grid based on renewable generation, intermittent sources including solar energy must be paired with storage. Thermal energy storage is a very attractive solution due to its simplicity, scalability, and low cost 1-5 , especially compared to electrochemical battery storage 6 . However, thermal storage precludes the use of direct solar-to- electricity conversion with photovoltaics (PVs) unless extremely high storage temperatures are used 7 . Instead, sunlight is absorbed as heat and used to immediately or later (with thermal storage) drive a heat engine. Modern concentrating solar power plants accomplish this with thermomechanical cycles that use large turbomachinery, resulting in high capital costs 8, 9 . Accordingly, concentrating solar power plants generally must be very large for cost-competitive electricity generation. This has helped to motivate research into alternative, solid-state heat engines that could also offer simplicity, scalability, and low cost 10-12 . One type of solid-state heat engine that has received significant attention is the thermophotovoltaic (TPV) converter 13-15 . A TPV system consists of a hot emitter of thermal infrared photons which replaces the sun and a PV cell that converts those photons to electricity 16-18 . When the emitter is heated directly or indirectly (via thermal storage) by sunlight, this is a solar TPV system as illustrated in Fig. 1A. Solar TPVs have a very high maximum theoretical solar conversion efficiency of 85 for fully concentrated sunlight on a black absorber 19 . This has motivated a number of theoretical 20-26 and experimental 14, 27-31 studies of solar TPVs, but experimental solar conversion efficiencies have only reached 8.4 14 . High solar TPV efficiencies are difficult to achieve in practice because they favor relatively high bandgaps ( 0.6 eV) and emitter temperatures ( 1500 K) 11, 19, 21, 32 , which also leads to large thermal losses. Preprint Sept. 1, 2020 2 Despite their challenges, TPV systems have a number of beneficial characteristics, such as the ability to modify the photon spectrum and recycle unused photons back to the thermal emitter. For example, sub-bandgap parasitic absorption can be drastically reduced by using nanophotonic selective emitters 29, 30, 33, 34 or selectively absorbing cells with a rear mirror 13, 35, 36 . Fig. 1. (A) Schematic of a solar thermophotovoltaic, a solar thermoradiative, and a solar thermoradiative-photovoltaic energy converter. (B) Band diagrams of the thermoradiative and photovoltaic cells. (C) Current-voltage diagram of the two devices. A solar thermoradiative- photovoltaic converter produces electricity from both cells simultaneously. A related technology that could operate efficiently with lower bandgaps and lower hot-side temperatures is the thermoradiative (TR) cell or negative illumination photodiode 37, 38 . TR cells have the same p-n architecture as PV cells, but instead of being illuminated by an external photon source they are directly heated and allowed to thermally radiate to a colder temperature environment, as illustrated in Fig. 1A. The resulting net emission of above-bandgap thermal photons can be thought of as a negative illumination causing a nonequilibrium depletion of minority carriers by radiative recombination. This corresponds to a splitting of quasi-Fermi levels and device voltage opposite that of a PV cell under illumination, as shown in Fig. 1B. A continuous current is enabled by diffusion of charge carriers towards the junction and a sufficient heat supply for those carriers to overcome the junction voltage, which is also illustrated in Fig. 1B . PV cells, on the other hand, rely primarily on drift (movement of charges due to the built-in electric field) to separate electron-hole pairs and enable a continuous current. As a result, TR cells produce power in the second quadrant of a current-voltage plot whereas PV cells produce power in the fourth quadrant, which is depicted in Fig. 1C. Even though TR cells are a relatively new concept, they have already been demonstrated experimentally 39-41 and have been shown to have great potential as emissive energy harvesters 42-49 . As with solar TPVs, TR converters could be used for solar energy conversion by heating the TR cell with sunlight via a solar absorber or thermal J VThermoradiative ThermophotovoltaicHot Thermoradiative Cell Cool Photovoltaic Cell LoadSolar Radiation Thermal Radiation ElectricitySolarAbsorber Load Electricity Hot Thermoradiative CellSolar Radiation Thermal RadiationSolarAbsorber Load ElectricityCool Photovoltaic Cell LoadSolar Radiation Thermal Radiation ElectricitySolarAbsorberThermophotovoltaic Thermoradiative Thermoradiative-Photovoltaic Ec EvEf,eEf,h -solar heatlightEc EvEf,eEf,h- Thermoradiative Cell Photovoltaic Cell A B C Preprint Sept. 1, 2020 3 storage 50 . However, solar TR systems favor very low bandgap ( 0.3 eV) materials, making them more sensitive to nonradiative losses 38, 50 . To utilize the advantages of both TPV and
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Interdigitated flexible supercapacitor using activated carbon synthesized from biomass for wearable energy storage Ankit Singha, Kaushik Ghoshb, Sushil Kumarb, Ashwini K.Agarwalc, Manjeet Jassalc, Pranab Goswamia, Harsh Chaturvedia aCentre for Energy, Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, Assam,781039, India bInstitute of Nano Science and Technology, Mohali, Punjab,160062, India cSMITA research lab,Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, New Delhi, 110016, India Abstract We have developed a flexible, interdigitated supercapacitor with high ene rgy storage capacity for emerging wearable flexible electronic applications. Locally obtained, low cost biomass (banana peel) was impregnated with KOH at high temperature under inert atmosphere to synthesize activated carbon with significant Brunauer Emmet t Teller surface area of 62.03m² g. The supercapacitor was fabricated by screen printing interdigitated current collector of conducting silver ink on a thin flexible PET substrate and subsequent deposition of activated carbon and drop casting of gel electr olyte. Fabricated supercapacitor exhibits high capacitance of 33.18 mF cm2 at 1mV s scan rate and 20.12 mF cm2 at discharge current of 1mA and high energy density of 5.87µWh cm2. The developed flexible supercapacitor retains its energy storing capacity ( 9 0 ) over several cycles of mechanical bending and repetitive electronic cycling tests ( 5000 cycles). Locally available biomass based activated carbon and low cost screen printing technique can be used for large scale fabrication of supercapacitor. The fle xible supercapacitor demonstrates high energy storing capacity and mechanical durability through multiple bending and charging and discharging through LED. Therefore, it can be used for further developing integrated wearable and printed electronic devices. Keywords: flexible, thin, wearable, interdigitated supercapacitor, high capacitance, high energy density, low cost, durable. Introduction Energy storage is equally important as energy generation as generating energy at all times is neither possible nor is economically feasible. Modern day electronic devices are predominantly powered by lithium based batteries which have limitations in terms of wearability. With the rise in demand for wearable electronic devices, need for flexible wearable energy storing device has arisen. Supercapacitor has high energy storing capacity, long life, rapid charge discharge ability, safe from explosions and leak age and also environment friendly. 1,2 Supercapacitor can be designed to be flexible for wearable applications eliminating the necessity of carrying bulky devices. Flexible supercapacitor can also be utilized along with batteries as hybrid system for pow ering sensors in various areas of biomedical, environmental monitoring applications etc. 3,4,5 We have fabricated a thin flexible interdigitated supercapacitor using simple techniques which can be easily reproduced in any part of the world without the req uirement of sophisticated equipment or techniques. Also, the materials used are easily available and are considerably inexpensive. 3,6,7,9 Experimental Synthesis of activated carbon Banana peel (musa acuminata ) was collected from local sources. The peel was then thoroughly washed with distilled water and dried overnight in vacuum oven at 80 C. 2 0.20.40.60.81 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700Intensity (a.u) Raman Shift (cm-1)ID IG 1.23 D 1348cm-1 G 1600cm-1 a c b Figure 1: (a) FESEM image of synthesized activated carbon at 3kX and (b) 10kX magnification showing well porous structure, (c) Raman spectrum of activated carbon at 633nm. Aqueous solution of KOH was prepared by mixing 3g of KOH flakes in 50 ml of deionized water. Small amount of dried peel (3g) was added to this aqueous KOH solution and was stirred at 200 rpm for 2 hours. The peel was removed from the solution and dried overnight in vacuum oven at 80 C. The KOH impregnated peel was heated in a muffle furnace in abs ence of air at 600 C for 1 hr. The residue was washed with dilute HCL and distilled water several times until the pH reached 7 and was then dried overnight in vacuum oven at 80 C resulting in activated carbon. 7 The synthesized activated carbon was inve stigated using field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) surface area analyser and Raman spectroscopy. As observed from the FESEM images (figure 1(a),(b)), the synthesized activated carbon is well porous with pore si ze of few hundred nanometer. The BET surface area is of 62.03m2 g. The intercalation of metallic K in carbon lattices causes high microporosity of activated carbon and therefore increasing the effective surface area of the supercapacitor electrode and henc e its capacitance. 7 Raman spectrum of the synthesized activated carbon was obtained by Raman spectroscopic analysis (figure 1(c)). D and G bands at 1348 cm-1 and 1600 cm-1 respectively obtained from the spectrum corresponds to that of activated carbon. 8 PVA H 3PO 4 gel was prepared which acts as a separator as well as an electrolyte because it remains stable under multiple mechanical bending and has good electrochemical properties. 9 Preparation of gel electrolyte The PVA H 3PO 4 gel electrolyte was prepared by adding 1 g of PVA into 10 ml of DI water under constant stirring for 2hrs. The whole mixture was maintained at 90 C. After a clear solution is obtained, 1ml of H 3PO 4 was added into the mixture and was stirred for another 1h r. 4,9 Fabrication of interdigitated supercapacitor a b Figure 2: (a) Screen printing technique to print interdigitated current collector, (b). Silver ink based flexible interdigitated supercapacitor Interdigitated configuration has electrodes interleaved into each other having finger like pattern (figure 2(b)). The effective c apacitance increases due to electrical paralleling of individual electrodes. Acetone cleaned rectangular PET sheet (35 cm2) was used as the flexible substrate. Activated carbon was crushed in mortar -pestle and was weighed and kept in equal amounts (10mg) o n aluminum foil. Conductive silver ink was screen -printed on the PET substrate to form interdigitated current collector as shown in figure 2(a). Equally weighed powdered activated carbon (10mg) was evenly sprinkled on the printed current collector and was left for drying at room temperature for 5 hrs. The PVA H 3PO 4 gel electrolyte was then drop -casted on the interdigitated electrodes and was spread using a doctor blade to get uniform thickness. The device
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Nonlinear Online Optimization for Vehicle-Home-Grid Integration including Household Load Prediction and Battery Degradation Francesco Popolizio, Torsten Wik, Chih Feng Lee, and Changfu Zou Abstract This paper investigates the economic impact of vehicle-home-grid integration, by proposing an online energy management algorithm that optimizes energy flows between an electric vehicle (EV), a household, and the electrical grid. The algorithm leverages vehicle-to-home (V2H) for self-consumption and vehicle-to-grid (V2G) for energy trading, adapting to real- time conditions through a hybrid long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network for accurate household load prediction, alongside a comprehensive nonlinear battery degradation model accounting for both cycle and calendar aging. Simulation results reveal significant economic advantages: compared to smart unidirectional charging, the proposed method yields an annual economic benefit of up to C3046.81, despite a modest 1.96 increase in battery degradation. Even under unfavorable market conditions, where V2G energy selling generates no revenue, V2H alone ensures yearly savings of C425.48. A systematic sensitivity analysis investigates how variations in battery capacity, household load, and price ratios affect economic outcomes, confirming the consistent benefits of bidirectional energy exchange. These findings highlight the potential of EVs as active energy nodes, enabling sustainable energy management and cost-effective battery usage in real- world conditions. I. INTRODUCTION In recent years, the widespread adoption of electric vehi- cles (EVs) has experienced a significant growth, bringing major changes to the transportation sector. EVs are pro- viding a more sustainable solution to the challenges posed by climate change. However, this transition is also having a significant impact on global energy demand. With the exponential growth in the number of EVs on the road, the need for energy to recharge their batteries increases daily, placing significant challenges on electric grids. Projections indicate that global electricity demand for EV charging is expected to increase by 633 from 2023 to 2030 1 . The primary goal of traditional charging systems is to charge the battery once an EV is connected to the power socket 2 . However, a vehicle is parked approximately 96 of the time 3 . This highlights the potential to leverage EVs for active interaction with electric grids. With the emergence of bidirectional power transfer for EVs, it is now possible to reduce the costs for EV owners while providing a service to the grid. In this context, concepts such as vehicle-to-grid This work was supported by the Swedish Energy Agency within the Vehicle Strategic Research and Innovation Program (Grant No. P2022- 00960). F. Popolizio, T. Wik and C. Zou are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, G oteborg, Sweden ( frapop chalmers.se, torsten.wik chalmers.se, changfu.zou chalmers.se ) Chih Feng Lee is with Polestar Performance AB, G oteborg, Sweden (chih.feng.lee polestar.com )(V2G) and vehicle-to-home (V2H) are emerging as ground- breaking solutions, where EVs are no longer merely means of transportation but actual energy nodes. V2G allows EVs to supply energy back to the grid, providing services such as load balancing and frequency regulation 4 , while allowing the EV owner to generate profit by selling stored energy. V2H allows EVs to supply power to a home, supporting home energy management and enabling the user to reduce energy costs and increase self-sufficiency 5 . In addition to being used to minimize electricity consumption costs, the V2H can also be used as a backup source for the load connected to the home in the event of a power failure from the grid 4 . The adoption of V2G and V2H technologies largely depends on user acceptance and preferences. A survey conducted in Sweden highlights that vehicle-home-grid in- tegration presents both challenges and opportunities 6 . First, users tend to prefer V2H systems, perceiving them as relatively straightforward. This preference is primarily driven by the immediate financial benefits (i.e., energy cost savings for household consumption) and the added resilience provided during grid outages. While V2G is also seen as promising for its various services to the grid and the offered opportunity for energy arbitrage, this technology presents great challenges, particularly regarding battery longevity and the risk of insufficient charge capacity for daily vehicle use. The user preferences highlighted in 6 underline the importance of addressing both technical and economic chal- lenges to enhance the adoption of bidirectional charging systems. To this end, considerable research effort has been devoted to developing energy management algorithms for V2G and V2H. In the relevant literature, most approaches rely on offline optimization. For example, a multi-integer linear program- ming (MILP) framework was developed to optimize the operation of smart households using V2G and V2H, aiming to minimize user costs 7 . Without considering V2H, Dong et al. formulated the day-ahead V2G scheduling problem within the multi-agent reinforcement learning framework to optimize the peak shaving performance for the electric grid 8 . V2G and V2H applications for energy trading were also explored in 9 , which reports that an average German house- hold with a photovoltaic system, heat pump, and stationary battery can generate annual revenues of approximately C310. However, these three works ignored battery degradation in the optimization for simplicity, which tend to result in sub- optimal solutions due to excessive battery costs. To mitigate the risk, Khezri et al. presented a MILP-based optimalarXiv:2504.09657v1 eess.SY 13 Apr 2025 scheduling model for EVs, in which V2G and a linearized battery degradation model were considered 10 . Following this trend, Lee et al. 11 presented a linear programming- based V2G optimization focusing on frequency regulation according to the rules of the Swedish market. A common feature of these works is that they assume full knowledge of input data in advance, such as household loads, and then solve the problem offline, making them less applicable to real-world with dynamic scenarios. To mitigate the potential drawbacks of offline optimiza- tion, recent research has increasingly focused on optimizing V2G technology online. Li et al. proposed an online battery anti-aging V2G scheduling method and utilized fuzzy logic control to solve the optimization in two stages. Therein, only the cycle aging was considered during offline calibration to set the
__label__energy	AnyMOD.jl: A Julia package for creating energy system models L. Göke TU Berlin, Workgroup for Infrastructure Policy (WIP), Straße des 17. Juni 135, 10623 Berlin, Germany. Abstract AnyMOD.jl is a Julia framework for creating large-scale energy system mod- els with multiple periods of capacity expansion. It applies a novel graph- based approach that was developed to address the challenges in modeling high levels of intermittent generation and sectoral integration. Created mod- els are formulated as linear optimization problems using JuMP.jl as a back- end. To enable modelers to work more eﬃciently, the framework provides ad- ditional features that help to visualize results, streamline the read-in of input data, and rescale optimization problems to increase solver performance. Keywords: Macro-energy systems, Energy system modeling, Open-source modeling, Julia Preprint submitted to SoftwareX August 12, 2021arXiv:2011.00895v2 physics.soc-ph 10 Aug 2021 Current code version Nr.Code metadata description Please ﬁll in this column C1Current code version v0.1.6 C2Permanent link to code repository used for this code versionhttps: github.com leonardgoeke AnyMOD.jl releases tag v0.1.6 C3Code Ocean compute capsule C4Legal Code License MIT license (MIT) C5Code versioning system used git C6Software code languages, tools, and services usedJulia C7Compilation requirements, operat- ing environments dependenciesJulia 1.3.1 C8If available Link to developer docu- mentation manualhttps: leonardgoeke. github.io AnyMOD.jl stable C9Support email for questions lqo wip.tu-berlin.de Table 1: Code metadata 1. Motivation and signiﬁcance 1 Since the production of energy accounts for three-quarters of global emis- 2 sions, mitigating climate change requires the decarbonization of the energy 3 system 1 . Cutting emissions requires to shift supply of primary energy to 4 electricity from wind and solar and extend its use to other sectors. As a 5 result, the energy system has to undergo fundamental change and evolve 6 from largely independent sectors with little supply from renewables into an 7 integrated system characterized by ﬂuctuating renewables. 8 Capacity expansion models investigate the long-term developments of 9 macro-energy systems, but existing methods were developed for systems still 10 characterized by fossil fuels and struggle to describe the transformation to- 11 wards a renewable system 2 . Models like ReEDS, Message, or Switch, pur- 12 sue a time-slice approach, that reduces the entire year to a small number 13 of independent periods 3, 4, 5 . This reduction limits the detail applied to 14 ﬂuctuating renewables and more importantly prohibits to consider long-term 15 storage, a key component of renewable energy systems 6, 7 . Other models, 16 like PyPSA or Calliope, diverge from this approach and consider a continu- 17 ous and hourly time-series instead, which enables a detailed representation 18 of renewables and long-term storage 8, 9 . But in return these models are 19 2 limited to a single year and, opposed to models using time-slices, cannot 20 analyze development pathways for today s system. 21 Against this background, AnyMOD.jl provides a framework for modeling 22 the long-term transformation of the energy system with the level of detail 23 necessary to represent ﬂuctuating renewables and long-term storage. The 24 framework implements a novel graph-based method introduced in Göke 10 25 that varies the level of temporal and spatial detail by energy carrier to keep 26 models with high resolution computationally tractable. The approach also 27 enables to model the substitution of energy carriers and, on the practical 28 side, facilitates the read-in of input data. 29 AnyMOD.jl follows an easy to use, but diﬃcult to master principle. Since 30 individual models are solely deﬁned by CSV ﬁles and can be run with a few 31 lines of standard code, running an existing model, and performing sensitivity 32 analysis requires little experience. More advanced applications, like creat- 33 ing new models and individually modifying their formulation, requires some 34 programming skills and a deeper understanding of the framework s structure. 35 SincemodelsaredeﬁnedfromCSVﬁlesandshortcodescripts, theframework 36 supports version-controlled model development to promote collaboration and 37 transparency. 38 The following section gives an overview of the framework s structure and 39 presents two functionalities with greater detail, the read-in of parameter data 40 (section 2.2.1) and the re-scaling algorithm (section 2.2.2). The subsequent 41 section describes an application that models the transformation of the Euro- 42 peanpowerandgassector. Theﬁnalsectionpaperhighlightstheframework s 43 impact and concludes. 44 2. Software description 45 The package is implemented in Julia. Its key dependencies are JuMP.jl 46 as a backend for linear optimization and DataFrames.jl for data processing 47 11, 12 . The framework uses PyCall.jl to create an internal Python envi- 48 ronment and apply the Python packages NetworkX and Plotly for plotting. 49 Gurobi is added as an optional dependency, because its function to compute 50 irreducible inconsistent subsystems is utilized to debug infeasible models. 51 Apart from that, the framework is compatible with any open or commercial 52 solver implemented in Julia. To increase performance the package heavily 53 utilizes Julia s multi-threading capabilities. Since not supported by JuMP.jl, 54 the mere creation of constraints uses only one thread, but the computation- 55 ally more intensive composition of constraints from variables and parameters 56 is multi-threaded. 57 3 Figure 1: UML class diagram of package components 2.1. Software Architecture 58 The class diagram in Figure 1 illustrates the architecture of AnyMOD.jl 59 and how it revolves around the AnyModel object. For the sake of clarity, 60 the diagram is not exhaustive and only covers the most relevant dependen- 61 cies, objects and attributes. Listing 2.1 provides the corresponding code to 62 initialize, populate, solve and analyze the model object. 63 AfterloadingAnyMOD.jl, theconstructorinitializesthe AnyModel object 64 based on two mandatory arguments: an input directory and an output direc- 65 tory. The CSV ﬁles deﬁning a model consist of set and parameter ﬁles that 66 have to be placed in the input directory. The set ﬁles deﬁne all time-steps, 67 regions, energy carriers and technologies considered in a model and map how 68 these are related, for example which carriers a technology can generate. Fol- 69 lowing the graph-based approach, the elements of each set are organized as 70 nodes
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Balancing Act: The Cost of Wind Restrictions in Norway s Electricity Transition Maximilian Roithner 1 , Paola Velasco Herrejon 1 , Koen van Greevenbroek 4 , Aleksander Grochowicz 2,3 , Oskar Vågerö 1 , Tobias Verheugen Hvidsten 1 , James Price 5 , Marianne Zeyringer 1 1 Department of Technology Systems, University of Oslo 2 Department of Mathematics, University of Oslo 3 Department of Wind and Energy Systems, Technical University of Denmark 4 Department of Computer Science, UiT The Arctic University of Norway 5 UCL Energy Institute, University College London, London, United Kingdom Abstract To meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement and reduce its dependency on energy imports, the pace, and scale of renewable energy deployment across Europe must increase dramatically over the next decade. Such a steep change in the net-zero transition will inevitably necessitate trade-offs with other societal priorities. Here we investigate a case study focused on the opposition towards onshore wind and the compromises that may need to be made to deliver its plans for deep electrification. Using an electricity system model, we explore the implications of key social and environmental dimensions shaping the future deployment of onshore wind on the costs and design of electricity systems for Norway in 2030. We find that under restrictions that allow for almost no additional onshore wind, demand can not be met and load has to be shed. Yet, when reducing the restrictions on onshore wind or allowing for in-country transmission expansion, feasible system designs at a small fraction of that cost can be found. To meet the net-zero targets, compromises will need to be made on either wind power deployment, transmission expansion, non-electrification of industry or demand reduction. corresponding author, maximilian.roithner its.uio.no 1. Introduction The decarbonization of power production is key to achieving the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global mean surface temperature rise to well below 2 C, particularly so given the drive to electrify industry, transport, and heat. Variable renewable energy technologies (VREs) such as wind and solar photovoltaics (PV) have decreased rapidly in cost and matured into cost-effective decarbonization solutions (IPCC, 2023) . However, the location of VREs affects the technical feasibility and their impact on the environment and the communities where they are located. Thus, socio-environmental constraints can have a large impact on the overall capacity potential which influences the technology choices, changing costs and political viability of reaching decarbonization goals. These constraints may also have an impact on ensuring a reliable electricity supply that meets current and future energy demand. The potential trade-offs and competing interests between technology, nature protection, social acceptance, energy prices and future demand needs to be evident in policies aimed at promoting VREs. There is an urgency for rapid action to close the emission gap requiring cuts of 42 by 2030 to get on track for 1.5 C (United Nations Environment Programme et al., 2024) and e.g. the European Union is not on track to meet its 2030 targets (Climate Analytics NewClimate Institute, 2024) . Norway comes with some of the best on- and offshore wind resources in Europe (Egging Tomasgard, 2018; Karlstrøm Ryghaug, 2014) . If Norway aims to achieve net-zero emissions, this would lead to an increase in domestic electricity demand of up to 90 TWh from 127 TWh in 2023 (Statnett, 2023b) to electrify sectors including transport, manufacturing, and oil and gas extraction. However, wind energy development has been contested and licensing has been revoked due to opposition from nature conservation groups, recreational activities and local communities (Gulbrandsen et al., 2021; Karlstrøm Ryghaug, 2014) . While renewable energy development, nature protection and social support may all be regarded as critical, an energy transition that balances all three is proving challenging in meeting Norway s future energy demand and achieving its decarbonization goals. For instance, the construction of wind farms has been considered by the Sámi Council as threatening the sustainability of reindeer herding (Lawrence, 2014) . In 2021, Norway s supreme court ruled that two wind farms built at Fosen in central Norway violated Sámi human rights under international conventions. The future of these wind farms is still unclear. This uncertainty sparked protests in February 2023, where Sámi activists blocked the entrance to Norway s energy ministry, demanding the cease of operations of the energy plants (Fouche Klesty, 2023) . Therefore, socio-environmental constraints can have a large impact on the overall electricity generation capacity potential, which will in turn affect optimal technology choices, system costs and the social feasibility of reaching the Paris Agreement. The Norwegian power system is facing an increase in electricity demand from the electrification of transport, heating and industry, while the traditional generation source (hydropower) is not able to meet all of this increase due to environmental limits. While there has been a strong increase in onshore wind energy capacity from 860 MW in 2014 to 5 GW in 2021, there have been only 15 MW added since then (Statistics Norway, 2024) . This leads to concerns about a power deficit by 2030 (Statnett, 2023a) which we choose as the target year of the analysis. 2 Energy systems and electricity system modelling has been a key policy tool for studying how to meet future demand and decarbonization pathways (DeCarolis et al., 2017) . They can provide knowledge-based and systematic methods and solutions to reach decisions about which technologies and areas to invest in. Nevertheless, present-day models mainly integrate techno-economic input parameters, whereas social factors and environmental constraints such as local acceptance of new installations, are largely neglected (Gambhir, 2019; Nikas et al., 2020; Pfenninger et al., 2014) . Several studies (Höltinger et al., 2016; McKenna et al., 2014; Permien Enevoldsen, 2019; Rinne et al., 2018) have acknowledged the importance of accounting for socio-environmental acceptance when modelling renewable energy potential and others call for integration of non techno-economic factors in energy system models (Hanna Gross, 2021; Hirt et al., 2020; Süsser et al., 2022) . Without considering social factors that shape the renewable energy deployment, energy system models can therefore produce decarbonization solutions
__label__energy	ECEEE SUMMER STUDY PROCEEDINGS 1199Optimal sizing of solar photovoltaic and lithium battery storage to reduce grid electricity reliance in buildings Han Kun Ren Department of Engineering Science University of Oxford 7 Keble Road OX1 3QG Oxford United Kingdom han.ren eng.ox.ac.uk Malcolm McCulloch Department of Engineering Science University of Oxford Begbroke Science Park, Sandy Lane OX5 1PF Yarton United Kingdom malcolm.mcculloch eng.ox.ac.ukDavid Wallom Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford 7 Keble Road OX1 3QG Oxford United Kingdom david.wallom oerc.ox.ac.uk Keywords renewable energy, optimisation, hybrid, photovoltaics, electric storage Abstract In alignment with the Paris Agreement, the city of Oxford in the UK aims to become carbon neutral by 2040. Renewable en - ergy help achieve this target by reducing the reliance on carbon- intensive grid electricity. This research seeks to optimally size solar photovoltaic and lithium battery storage systems, reducing Oxford s grid electricity reliance in buildings. The analysis starts with modeling the electricity demand. The model uses Elexon electricity settlement profiles, and assembles them into the de - mand profile according to the quantity and types of buildings in Oxford. Then, solar generation is modeled using Pfenninger and Staffell s method. Solar photovoltaic and lithium storage systems are sized using a hybridized analytical and iterative method. First, the method calculates the solar system size search range, then iterates through the range. At each solar size, the method calculates and iterates through the storage system size search range. Within each iteration, the renewable system is simulated using demand and generation data with a simplified system set - 𝑪𝑪 critical point matrix 𝑛𝑛! number of companies with class 𝑖𝑖 demand 𝐶𝐶 solar PV system capacity (MW) 𝜂𝜂 storage charge efficiency 𝐶𝐶 max solar PV system capacity (MW) 𝜂𝜂( storage discharge efficiency 𝐶𝐶) storage system capacity (MWh) 𝑛𝑛 solar PV system lifespan (year) 𝐷𝐷 electricity demand (MW) 𝑛𝑛 storage system lifespan (year) 𝐷𝐷! class 𝑖𝑖 electricity demand (MW) 𝑁𝑁 total number of companies 𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷 depth of discharge ( ) 𝑂𝑂 solar PV system O M cost ( EUR MW year) 𝐸𝐸 storage system size (MWh) 𝑂𝑂 storage system O M cost (EUR MWh year) 𝑓𝑓! class 𝑖𝑖 correction factor 𝑃𝑃 electricity wholesale price ( EUR MWh) 𝐹𝐹 solar generation capacity factor (MW MW) 𝑟𝑟 discount rate ( ) 𝐺𝐺 solar generation (MW) 𝑆𝑆 storage level (MWh) 𝐼𝐼 solar PV system installed cost ( EUR MW) 𝑆𝑆,- . real storage level (MWh) 𝐼𝐼 storage system installed cost ( EUR MWh) 𝑆𝑆) )0 !1 sustainable starting storage level (MWh) 𝑳𝑳 lower triangular matrix 𝑡𝑡 time (hour) 𝐿𝐿𝐶𝐶𝑂𝑂𝐸𝐸 levelized cost of electricity ( EUR MWh) 𝛥𝛥𝑡𝑡 time step (hour) 𝑴𝑴 difference matrix 𝑡𝑡1 time at the nth critical storage level (hour) 𝑚𝑚! number of electricity meters in Class 𝑖𝑖 𝑇𝑇 time horizon (hour) 𝑀𝑀 total number of electricity meters Nomenclature 8-096-22 REN ET AL1200 ECEEE 2022 SUMMER STUDY 8. BUILDINGS: TECHNOLOGIES AND SYSTEMS BEYOND up and the conventional operation strategy. The method outputs combinations of solar system capacity, storage system capacity, and grid electricity import. Each combination s levelized cost of electricity is calculated, and the lowest cost combination is the optimal sizing. Solar and storage system costs are projected from 2019 to 2100, and the optimal sizing is calculated for each year. The result shows that solar photovoltaic is economically competitive, but lithium storage cost is still too high. As solar and storage prices continue to drop, they will take up greater portions of the energy system. However, there will always be a need for the grid, as it provides flexibility and can meet demands that are too costly for solar and storage. Introduction In alignment with the Paris Agreement, the city of Oxford in the UK aims to become carbon neutral by 2040 (Oxford City Council, 2021). Renewable energies are clean and environmen - tally friendly, suitable for achieving the carbon-neutral target. The renewable industry has seen tremendous growth, with solar photovoltaic costs reduced by 85 since 2010 (IRENA, 2020). In many countries, these reduced costs enable solar PV (photo - voltaic) farms to produce electricity significantly cheaper than fossil fuel power plants. Furthermore, solar is also more acces - sible, providing power for remote communities unreachable by the grid. The environmental, economic, and accessible merits give solar generation an edge over fossil fuel power plants. As a result, solar PV installations currently account for 98 of Oxfordshire s renewable generation (Low Carbon Hub, 2021). A significant drawback of solar is its temporal and weather dependency, causing energy generation to be intermittent and non-dispatchable, unable to follow the varying demand. Energy storage can fix these issues by storing energy during surplus generation and releasing that energy during excess demand. Therefore, this paper aims to help the city of Oxford determine the optimal size of solar PV and lithium battery systems, reduc - ing buildings reliance on grid-supplied electricity. The sizing of hybrid renewable systems has four main ap - proaches: iterative, heuristic, mathematical optimization, and analytical (Anoune et al., 2018). The iterative approach system - atically iterates through a range of renewable sizes, simulating the renewable system at each size, and selecting the optimal size based on system performance and cost. Ma used HOMER (Hybrid Optimization of Multiple Energy Resources) software to size solar PV panels, wind turbines, and batteries for a Hong Kong island with an average electricity demand of 250 kWh day (Ma et al., 2014). The study found the lowest cost solar- wind-battery system consists of 145 kW solar, 21 kW wind, and 705 kWh battery capacity. Borowy proposed a hybrid iterative and analytical method to size solar-battery systems (Borowy Salameh, 1994). The iterative method produces solar and battery size combinations that can meet a specific amount of electricity demand, measured in LPSP (Loss of Power Supply Probability). Then, the relationship between solar and battery sizes is modeled with an analytical equation, and the equation is solved for the lowest-cost solar and battery sizes. Cabral used an iterative method to size a solar-battery system (Cabral et al., 2010). The study used
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	1 Exploring the Interplay Between Formation Mechanisms and Luminescence of Lignin Carbon Quantum Dots from Spruce Biomass Jelena Papan Djaniš , , , Maja Szymczak , Jan Hočevar , Jernej Iskra , Boštjan Genorio , Darja Lisjak , Lukasz Marciniak , Karolina Elzbieciak -Piecka , Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, University of Ljubljana, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Centre of Excellence for Photoconversion, Vinča Institute of Nuclear Sciences, National Institute of the Republic of Serbia, University of Belgrade, 11351 Belgrade, Serbia Department for the Synthesis of Materials, Jožef Stefan Institute, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research Polish Academy of Sciences, Wroclaw KEYWORDS : spruce biomass, lignin, carbon quantum dots, luminescence Corresponding authors: jelena.papandjanis fkkt.uni -lj.si and k.elzbieciak intibs.pl 2 ABSTRACT : This study investigates the intricate relationship between the formation mechanisms and luminescent properties of lignin -derived carbon quantum dots (LG -CQDs) synthesized from spruce biomass by hydrothermal treatment. A comprehensive understanding of LG -CQD structure and its photoluminescence requires insights into the native architecture of lignin and the distribution of its acidolysis -derived fragments. Research showed how these lignin -derived units interact with dopant molecules in three different approaches during synthesis, contributing to core and surface structures that govern the optical behavior. Our findings reveal a clear correlation between structural features and luminescent propertie s, emphasizing the role of surface chemistry in tuning emission characteristics. These insights provide a foundation for the rational design of LG-CQDs with tailored luminescent properties, advancing their potential applications in sustainable optoelectron ics, sensing, and bioimaging. Introduction In an era when fossil fuels enormously influence the pollution of the global environment, it is more than desirable to use abundant materials and cost -effective methods to produce new materials. One of the most abundant materials on Earth is lignocellulosi c biomass, which consists of three main components: cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin 1 . While the first two components are widely used in many areas, only a small percentage of lignin, the waste material of the paper industry, is used commercially. The rest is mainly used as low -grade fuel 2 . The limited utilization of lignin is primarily due to its complex and heterogeneous structure, which varies significantly between plant species. Nevertheless, lignin offers a promising and versatile platform for the development of multifunctional materia ls, providing both scientific challenges and opportunities 3 . Lignin is the only natural polymer with a rich aromatic structure consisting of three aromatic alcohols: p-hydroxyphenyl (H), guaiacyl (G), and syringyl (S) 4 . As recently 3 demonstrated, it possesses luminescent properties that can be enhanced by transforming lignin into lignin carbon quantum dots (LG -CQDs), spherical or quasi -spherical carbon nanoparticles with sizes below 10 nm 5 , 6 . Since 2016, when the first study on LG -CQDs was published 6 numerous notable publications have emerged exploring the use of lignin as a precursor for LG - CQDs. These studies have focused primarily on tuning luminescence properties, such as emission color and quantum yield, as well as investigating the application of LG-CQDs in sensing technologies 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 . For instance, lignin has been doped with mild organic acids such as 4 -aminobenzoic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, 4 -aminobenzenesulfonic acid, and 2,4 - diaminobenzenesulfonic acid, enabling a detailed investigation of the fluorescence mechanisms responsible for multicolor -emitting CQDs 5 . In another approach, doping lignin with small nitrogen -containing molecules such as ethylenediamine co -doped with magnesium resulted in CQDs exhibiting high sensitivity to pH variations 6 . Additionally, LG -CQDs doped with m- phenylenediamine have been evaluated as formaldehyde sensors, while doping with o- aminobenzenesulfonic acid produced CQDs with high sensitivity toward Fe³ ions. Doping with aminophenylboronic acid enabled the development of a selective sensor for Cr ⁶ ions. 8 , 11 , 12 . Yhu et al. demonstrated that by varying the ratio of nitrogen and sulfur atoms introduced as substituents on aromatic dopants, the emission color of carbon quantum dots can be precisely tuned across the visible spectrum from blue and green to yellow and red 13 . In the broader context of luminescence tuning, it is important to emphasize that lignin is typically doped with electron - donating substituents such as NH 2, NHR, NR 2, OH, OR, or CN. These electron -donating groups, in conjunction with aromatic rings, contribute to an extended π -conjugated system through delocalization of electrons. This enhanced π -electron conjugation effectively increases the luminescence efficienc y of the resulting CQDs 14 . 4 It is important to recognize that the intrinsic structure of lignin plays a critical role in the formation of LG -CQDs 15 . Typically, LG -CQDs are synthesized via a two -step process: an initial acidolysis step followed by a hydrothermal reaction. The primary objective of acidolysis is the depolymerization of the amorphous, three -dimensional polymer network of lignin. However, this depolymerization leads to a heterogeneous mixture of fragmented polymeric units of varying sizes. These size distributions can be partially narrowed through post -treatment techniques such as centrifugation, filtration, and dialysis 15 . During the subsequent hydrothermal step, these lignin -derived fragments, in the presence of selected dopants, undergo further transformation to form complex nanocarbon structures. Despite employing identical synthesis parameters ,including dopant type, solvents, reaction conditions, and purification protocols , the resulting LG -CQDs often exhibit variations in their degree of carbonization and surface functionalization. These structural differences significantly influence their optical behavior, particularl y their luminescence properties 16 . A comprehensive understanding of the structure and luminescent properties of LG -CQDs requires in -depth knowledge of both the native lignin architecture and the distribution of lignin - derived fragments produced during acidolysis. Equally important is elucid ating the mechanism of LG-CQD formation, wherein smaller lignin -derived units interact with dopant molecules. Additionally, gaining insight into how surface chemistry influences the optical behavior of these nanostructures is a critical step toward expandi ng their potential applications. Our research aims to address these fundamental questions. In this study, we utilized
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	1 Model Predictive Control for a Medium-head Hydropower Plant Hybridized with Battery Energy Storage to Reduce Penstock Fatigue Stefano Cassano and Fabrizio Sossan Abstract A hybrid hydropower power plant is a conventional HydroPower Plant (HPP) augmented with a Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) to decrease the wear and tear of sensitive mechanical components and improve the reliability and regula- tion performance of the overall plant. A central task of controlling hybrid power plants is determining how the total power set-point should be split between the BESS and the hybridized unit (power set-point splitting) as a function of the operational objectives. This paper describes a Model Predictive Control (MPC) framework for hybrid medium- and high-head plants to determine the power set-point of the hydropower unit and the BESS. The splitting policy relies on an explicit formulation of the mechanical loads incurred by the HPP s penstock, which can be damaged due to fatigue when providing regulation services to the grid. By ﬁltering out from the HPP s power set-point the components conducive to excess penstock fatigue and properly controlling the BESS, the proposed MPC is able to maintain the same level of regulation performance while signiﬁcantly decreasing damages to the hydraulic conduits. A proof-of-concept by simulations is provided considering a 230 MW medium-head hydropower plant. Index Terms Hybrid Power Plants, Battery Energy Storage System, Control, Hydropower plants. I. I NTRODUCTION Hydropower is a key asset of the electrical power system in- frastructure, providing both a signiﬁcant amount of electricity and regulation services to the power grid. In 2018 hydropower accounted for 16.8 of the total European power production and 70 of all renewable generation 1 . The increasing proportion of stochastic generation in the electric power systems will require steeper ramping duties and more frequent start-and-stop s to all dispatchable genera- tion units. Increased regulation duties for hydropower plants (HPPs) will determine increased wear and tear levels, ulti- mately leading to increased maintenance needs and negatively affecting plants economics. For example, in medium- and high-head HPPs, steep changes of the plant set-point aggravate water hammer effects and pose a serious risk of damaging the hydraulic conduits because of the fatigue levels incurred by the penstock, as demonstrated in 2 . Similarly, in low- head (or run-of-the-river) HPPs, increased regulation duties determines wear and fatigue of the guide vane bushes and the S. Cassano and F. Sossan are with the Centre for processes, renewable en- ergies and energy systems (PERSEE) of MINES ParisTech, Sophia Antipolis, France. E-mail: stefano.cassano, fabrizio.sossan mines-paristech.fr. Research supported by the European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under XFLEX HYDRO, grant agreement 857832. This paper has been submitted to PSCC 2022.Kaplan turbine s blade actuator (e.g., 3 ). All these wear-and- tear effects are a serious concern for operators because their maintenance and replacement is very expensive and typically require to shut down the plant for long periods. A solution advocated in the technical literature to limit damages to mechanical components and increase the reliability and ﬂexibility of an HPP is adding, in parallel to the hydraulic turbine, a battery energy storage system (BESS) to supply fast variations of the power output. This conﬁguration is generally referred to as a hybrid power plant. Hybridization with a BESS can be applied to other kinds of resources too, typically, however, for improving dispatch performance. Hybrid power plants came to prominence due to decreasing prices of BESSs, especially Lithium-ion batteries that excel in supplying quick variations of power due to their fast kinetics, lack of me- chanical time constants, and power-electronic interface. The principle underlying the notion of hybrid power plants is that operating the conventional plant and BESS within a uniﬁed control framework brings beneﬁt over operating the two units separately, thanks to leveraging SCADA information or plant speciﬁcities that would not be otherwise available outside plant premises. This is particularly true for fatigue reduction, where required control actions are on a time scale of few seconds, and speciﬁc plant information, such as power set-points and speed governor properties, and measurements are needed. When controlling a hybrid power plant, a central objective of the problem is to determine how the total power plant output is shared among the two (or possibly more) controllable resources. This situation is exempliﬁed in Fig. 1: a single power set-point for the hybrid plant needs to be split into two, one for the conventional generation unit (e.g., turbine), and another for the BESS. We call this procedure power set-point splitting, or splitting. Addressing meaningful splitting policies targeting fatigue Fig. 1: A hybrid hydropower plant.arXiv:2111.05004v3 eess.SY 13 Nov 2021 2 reduction in HPPs is a relatively new research problem, which has been addressed in the literature with empirical models so far. For example, a commonly proposed strategy is low-pass ﬁltering the power set-point; then, the ﬁltered set-point is sent to the HPP for actuation, and the rest is taken by the BESS ( 4 , 5 ). There are two main assumption underlying this ap- proach. The ﬁrst is that high-frequency variations of the power set-point are the root cause of fatigue in mechanical compo- nents; second, it assumes the existence of a formal procedure to translate from fatigue requirements to cut-off frequency of the ﬁlter. This procedure is, however, not documented in the existing literature. Both these assumptions are difﬁcult to be justiﬁed and realized in practice. In particular, since the fatigue and mechanical loads acting on the components are not modeled explicitly, low-pass ﬁltering might result in conservative estimates of the fatigue level, ultimately resulting in excess use of the BESS and not effective fatigue reduction. In addition, setting the cut-off frequency of the ﬁlter might result in approximations and oversimpliﬁcation of wear-and- tear processes. For the ﬁrst time in the literature, this paper proposes a splitting strategy for a hybrid HPP that aims at explicitly modeling the impact of mechanical loads on fatigue. Unlike empirical methods that are typically uninformed of the actual fatigue levels of the mechanical components, the proposed method
__label__energy	arXiv:2304.01109v1 eess.SY 3 Apr 2023Port-Hamiltonian Modelling for Analysis and Control of Gas Networks Albertus J. Malan Lukas Rausche Felix Strehle Sören Hohmann Institute of Control Systems (IRS), Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Kaiserstraße 12, 76131 Karlsruhe, Germany (e-mail: albertus.malan,lukas.rausche,felix.strehle,soeren. hohmann kit.edu). Abstract In this paper, we present ﬁnite-dimensional port-Hamilton ian system (PHS) models of a gas pipeline and a network comprising several pipelines for the purpose of control design and stability analysis. Starting from the partial diﬀerential Euler equa tions describing the dynamical ﬂow of gas in a pipeline, the method of lines is employed to obtain a l umped-parameter model, which simpliﬁes to a nonlinear third-order PHS. Parallels betwee n gas networks and power systems are drawn by showing that the obtained pipeline PHS model has the same π-representation as electrical transmission lines. Moreover, to assist futu re control design, additional passivity properties of the pipeline PHS model are analysed and discus sed. By comparing the proposed PHS models against other models in a standard simulation, we show that the simplifying assumptions have no material eﬀect on the model ﬁdelity. The proposed pipeline and network models can serve as a basis for passivity-based control and a nalysis while the power system parallels facilitate the transfer of existing methods. Keywords: electrical analogy; gas pipeline; network modeling; port- Hamiltonian modeling. 1. INTRODUCTION The combination of power to gas (P2G) facilities and the generation of green hydrogen envisions a sustainable and carbon-free future for gas networks. Since such P2G and electrolysis facilities are ideally supplied by excess renewable energy, the supply of gas from such facilities are also subject to the intermittency and volatility as- sociated with e.g. solar and wind power. Additionally, gas-ﬁred electricity and heat generation is increasingly being used to compensate intermittent electrical energy generation, which can cause pressure ﬂuctuations (see Osiadacz and Chaczykowski (2020)). Due to the expec- ted decrease in the overall demand for gas (see e.g. Qadrdan et al. (2019)), a coordination of the P2G facilit- ies, local gas storages, ﬂexible consumers and compressors supplying higher pressure networks will be required in the future. For the control and subsequent stability analysis of such future gas networks, dynamical gas network models are required. Speciﬁcally, dynamical models are required for the pipelines, which are the most numerous components and typically exhibit the slowest dynamics. The ﬂow of gas in the pipelines can accurately be described by the partial diﬀerential equations (PDEs) comprising the Euler equations. However, these PDEs pose a barrier to the This work was funded by Germany s Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Aﬀairs and Climate Action (BMWK) as part of the RegEnZe ll project (reference number 0350062C). This work has been submitted to IFAC for possible publicatio n.application of many control and stability analysis methods applicable only to ordinary diﬀerential equations (ODEs). Literature Review Herrán-González et al. (2009) and Pambour et al. (2016) propose detailed simulation mod- els for gas pipelines based on discretization. Similarly, Wiid et al. (2020) derive a nonlinear state-space model using the spectral element method for a pipeline with zero inclination. While the numerical nature of these models are appropriate for certain control methods (e.g. model predictive control), they generally provide no clear guid- ance towards control design or analytical system analysis. Ke and Ti (2000) and Taherinejad et al. (2017) provide pipeline models for control design and analysis inspired by electrical analogies, although the assumptions made signiﬁcantly aﬀect the model ﬁdelity in comparison with e.g. the simulation model in Pambour et al. (2016). Fur- thermore, Alamian et al. (2012) propose a linearised state- space model and Zhou et al. (2017) presents linearised transfer functions for the pipeline dynamics. While the standard control and stability analysis methods can be applied to these linear models, the linearisation signiﬁc- antly impacts model accuracy. Finally, Domschke et al. (2021) propose various port-Hamiltonian-based models for a gas pipeline. Port-Hamiltonian system (PHS) models may readily be used in passivity-based control and analysis methods without compromising model quality by remov- ing nonlinear eﬀects. Nevertheless, the inﬁnite dimension al PHS models presented by Domschke et al. (2021) retain the PDE nature of the Euler equations, limiting their ac- LeftRightL l D θQ 1 mRm dm Q 1 lQ 1 r qm ql qr plpr Figure 1. A gas pipeline sectioned into a left and a right side, superimposed with its electrical equivalent circuit. cess to more general control and stability analysis methods in comparison to ﬁnite dimensional PHSs. Main Contribution In this paper, we propose ﬁnite di- mensional PHS models for a gas pipeline and a network of gas pipelines for which standard control and analysis techniques can be applied. Speciﬁcally, this comprises: (1) A third order PHS model with a π-model structure similar to those of power system transmission lines. (2) A combined PHS model for an entire network of pipes. (3) A simulation demonstrating the ﬁdelity of the pro- posed PHS model compared to other models. Through parallels with models used for power systems and due to the use of the PHS framework, the proposed models provide a gateway for transferring established control and analysis methods in the ﬁeld of power systems to the domain of gas networks. Moreover, we further facilitate such a transfer of established methods by highlighting certain passivity properties of the PHS models. Paper Organisation The introduction concludes with some notation and preliminaries. In Section 2, the equa- tions representing the dynamics of an inclined gas pipeline are recalled. Next, in Section 3, PHS models are construc- ted for a gas pipeline and a network of pipelines. There- after in Section 4, the ﬁdelity of the proposed PHS model is evaluated through a comparison with other pipeline models. Concluding remarks are supplied in Section 5. Notation and Preliminaries Deﬁne as a vector a (ai) and a matrix A (aij).1kis a k-dimensional vector of ones and Ikis the identity matrix of dimension k.RandR denote the real and positive real sets, respectively. Diag creates a (block-)diagonal matrix from the supplied vectors (or matrices). Note
__label__energy	Abstract Agrivoltaics ( 𝑨𝑽) is a dual land -use approach to collocate solar energy generation with agriculture for preserving the terrestrial ecosystem and enabling food -energy -water synergies . Here, we present a systematic approach to model the economic performance of 𝑨𝑽 relative to standalone ground - mounted PV (𝑮𝑴𝑷𝑽 ) and explore how the module design configuration can affect the dual food -energy economic performance . A remarkably simple criterion for economic feasibility is quantified that relates the land preservation cost to dual food -energy profit . We explore case studies including both high and low value crop s under fixed tilt bifacial module s oriented either along the conventional North South (𝑵 𝑺) facing s or vertical East West (𝑬 𝑾) facings . For each module configuration, the array density is varied to explore an economically feasible design space relative to 𝑮𝑴𝑷𝑽 for a range of module to land cost ratio ( 𝑴𝑳) a location -specific indicator relating the module technology (hardware and installation) costs to the soft (land acquisition, tax, overheads, etc.) costs . To offset a typically higher 𝑨𝑽 module cost needed to preserve the cropland , both 𝑬 𝑾 and 𝑵 𝑺 orient ated modules favor high value crops , reduced ( 60 ) module density , and higher 𝑴𝑳 ( 𝟐𝟓). In contrast, higher module density and an increased feed -in-tariff ( 𝑭𝑰𝑻 ) relative to 𝑮𝑴𝑷𝑽 are desirable at lower 𝑴𝑳. The economic trend s vary sharply for 𝑴𝑳 10 but tend to saturat e for 𝑴𝑳 20. For low value crops, 15 additional 𝑭𝑰𝑻 can enable economic equivalence to 𝑮𝑴𝑷𝑽 at standard module density . The proposed modeling framework can provide a valuable tool for 𝑨𝑽 stakeholders to assess, predict , and optimize the techno -economic design for 𝑨𝑽. Index Terms techno -economic model, vertical bifacial, Feed - in-tariff, land preservation cost I. INTRODUCTION he global agriculture require s a projected capacity to feed around 10 billion people by 2050 1 . The preservation of agricultural lands, sustainable increase in crops yield and protection against the climate change are some of the primary approaches to meet this global challenge. Similar to the growing food needs, the global energy consumption is pr edicted to increase by nearly 50 over the next 30 years 2 which necessitates an enormous growth in the renewable energy generation , incl uding solar and wind , to save the climate . Sustainable food -energy solutions also require an effective use of the land to preserve the terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity . The conventional ground mounted photovoltaic (𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 ) systems are not designed for the utilization of the ir covered arable land area for dual food-energy productio n. As the global 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 installations are increasing rapidly , concerns over the land use change, food security, and biodiversity preservation are continuously on the r ise 3-6 . Moreover, with falling prices for solar power technology and increasing pressure of climate vulnerabilities, famers in many countries are tempted to convert their agricultural land into 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 7 . An innovative approach to address these issues are the dual land usage systems called agrivoltaics (𝐴𝑉) which have recently gained a widespread popularity 8, 9 . An 𝐴𝑉 system utilizes the same land for the dual production of crop s and energy by elevating the panels above ground and configuring them to facilitate agricultur al operations 10 . The concept of 𝐴𝑉 was initially proposed by Goetzberger and Zastrov back in 1981 11 . During the last decade, many academic and commercial scale 𝐴𝑉 installations 12-16 have been reported that indicate attractive synergies for the food -energy -water nexus including a higher water use efficiency, increased yield for the selected crops, and a cooling effect for solar module resulting in higher energy yield. In ma ny countries, government policies also support 𝐴𝑉 and currently 2000 𝐴𝑉 systems with cumulative capacity of 2.8GW p have been installed across the globe 12-14 . Many field studies and modeling work have also been reported for assessing and predicting the performance for different 𝐴𝑉 module configurations and crops 17-22 . Some of the common 𝐴𝑉 module configurations are shown in Fig 1 with a comparison with typical 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 . While a win -win situation for food -energy attracts a lot of interest for 𝐴𝑉, its economic feasibility for all the stakeholders including 𝑃𝑉 investors, farmers, and policymakers is critically important for its widespread acceptability . Although significant research has been reported on 𝐴𝑉 module technologies, crop- specific field experiments , and food-energy yield modeling 12- 23 , economic aspects for 𝐴𝑉 are relatively less understood. In particular, the economic tradeoffs as a function of various module configurations, land -specific costs, energy tariff s, and crop profits have not been modeled in comparison with 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 . The installation of 𝐴𝑉 modules is typically more expensive as compared to 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 due to an elevated mounting and customized foundations that are typically needed to facilitate agric ultural operations on the same land 24 . A higher levelized cost of electricity (𝐿𝐶𝑂𝐸 ) for 𝐴𝑉 as compared to 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 is therefore considered to be the land preservation cost for the 𝐴𝑉 system 12 . A recent study by NREL 25 estimates the land preservation costs for 𝐴𝑉 to be 50 to 20 of the premium costs of the 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 for the 𝑁 𝑆 faced fixed tilt and the Techno Economic Modeling for Agrivoltaics: Can Agrivoltaics be more profitable than Ground mounted PV? Habeel Alam, Muhammad Ashraful Alam, Fellow , IEEE and Nauman Zafar Butt, Member , IEEE T Figure 1. a) Vertical East -West (E W) faced bifacial agrivoltaics (AV) farm 26 , b) North south (N S) faced agrivoltaics (AV) farm (source: BayWa r.e.) 12 . c) A typical ground mounted photovoltaic (GMPV) system with pitch and height labelled. vertical 𝐸 𝑊 faced systems, respectively. Despite a higher 𝐿𝐶𝑂𝐸 , an additional revenue from crops can make 𝐴𝑉 economically superior to 𝐺𝑀𝑃𝑉 provided it could offset the land preservation cost. A
__label__energy	In proceedings of the 11th Bulk Power Systems Dynamics and Control Symposium (IREP 2022), July 25-30, 2022, Banff, Canada 1 Proposal and Description of a Test System with Wind, Hydro and Fossil Fuel Power Plants for Static Analyses Victor Neumann z, Roman Kuiavay, Rodrigo A. Ramoszand Ahda Pavanix Department of Engineering and Exact Sciences - Federal University of Parana, Palotina - PR - Brazil - 85950-000 vneumann ufpr.br, vneumann usp.br yDepartment of Electrical Engineering - Federal University of Parana, Curitiba - PR - Brazil - 81530-000 kuiava ufpr.br zDepartment of Electrical Engineering - Engineering School of Sao Carlos - USP, Sao Carlos - SP - Brazil - 13566-590 rodrigo.ramos ieee.org xCenter for Engineering and Applied Social Sciences - Federal University of ABC, Santo Andre - SP - Brazil - 09210-580 ahda.pavani ufabc.edu.br Abstract This article presents and describes a 229 bus test system that includes wind, hydro and fossil fuel power plants. It represents the Northeast subsystem of the Brazilian Intercon- nected Power System (BIPS). The test system supplies a load of 4.17 GW, being 13 powered by wind farms, which is the current wind power penetration level of the BIPS. The data comprehends different load levels based on the typical load behavior and typical capacity factors of wind, hydro and fossil fuel plants, as well as the capacity of transmission and sub-transmission lines, transformers, and the adopted structure for the test system. The data is compiled considering models and operating scenarios of the BIPS, and allow performing studies of static voltage stability, sensitivity of voltage stability margin considering the wind farms, and multi-objective optimization considering market constraints. The results of the simulations with the test system indicate the consistency of their data structure and its applicability to different studies of electric power systems. Index Terms Test-system, optimization, sensitivity, voltage stability, wind farms. I. I NTRODUCTION At the beginning of the year 2022, the Brazilian Intercon- nected Power System (BIPS) surpassed 20 GW of wind power installed capacity, spread in 751 wind farms with a total of 8,800 wind turbines 1 . Around 90 of this total capacity is located at the Northeast (NE) subsystem of the BIPS. Due to the signiﬁcant penetration level of wind power in this subsystem and the need to perform several studies considering wind generation and its interaction to the other power plants, this paper presents a 229-bus test system composed of wind, hydro, and fossil fuel power plants, named NE-BIPS-229bus. The test system is based on the NE subsystem due to the projection of connection of more wind farms to this subsystem in short, mid, and long term. The region presents load centers and power plants in the states of Cear a (CE), Rio Grande do Norte (RN), Para ıba (PB), Pernambuco (PE), Alagoas (AL), Sergipe (SE) and Bahia (BA), covering an approximated area of 720,000 Km2, whose geographic area is in Figure 1.The test system contemplates a total load of 4.17 GW, representing the annual average load level of the NE subsystem for 2021, with 13 of this load supplied by wind farms, which represents the current wind power penetration in the BIPS. Some electrical and operating data of the test-system are: a total load of 4.17 GW, spread in 42 load buses; total losses of 85 MW; total generation of 4.25 GW; 262 transmission and subtransmission lines, with voltage levels of 500, 230, 138, 69, 34.5, and 20 kV; and 159 transformers. The load is powered by 31 wind farms, 19 hydro power plants and 18 fossil fuel power plants, corresponding to, respectively, 13 , 58 and 29 of the total generation capacity. This mix of synchronous and assynchronous generation represents the main feature of the proposed test system, since it allows the analyzes of the main issues that may arise in power systems in the transition to an increase of the penetration levels of renewable sources connected to the grid by inverters. The Figure 1 shows the geographic coverage of the test system in the NE region of Brazil, which illustrates the locations of the main wind farms, hydro and fossil fuel power plants. Also, the main power ﬂow corridors in the 500 KV (in red) and 230 KV (in green) transmission lines are illustrated. The precise geographical location and details of each power plant, transmission system and substations can be obtained from the BIPS s Geographical Information System Dynamic Map 2 . A. Literature review There are numerous test systems available at different sites that can be used to perform various types of simulations aimed at studying electrical power systems, among which we can highlight the widely used IEEE test systems from 14 to 300 buses available on the University of Washington website 3 . An update of the IEEE 118-bus, named NREL-118, with a reconﬁgured generation representation using three regions of the US Western Interconnection from the latest WesternarXiv:2207.08897v1 eess.SY 18 Jul 2022 In proceedings of the 11th Bulk Power Systems Dynamics and Control Symposium (IREP 2022), July 25-30, 2022, Banff, Canada 2 Fig. 1. Coverage of the 229-bus test system - Source: BIPS Dynamic Map - ONS 2 Electricity Coordination Council (WECC) 2024 is detailed in 4 . The NREL-118 data includes generation technologies with different heat functions, stable minimum levels and ramp rates, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions rates, regulation and contingency reserves, solar and wind hourly time series provided for one year. Also, noteworthy are the test systems from 9 to 107 buses that are widely used in static analysis, and in some cases dynamic, of BIPS subsystems, available in 5 . There are also work that provide speciﬁc models to test algorithms of control and protection techniques in the integration of microgrids and generation from renewable sources 6 . However, as the test system described in this article has the speciﬁc objective of enabling the analysis of the main problems that may arise in energy systems in the transition to an increase of penetration levels of renewable sources connected to the grid by inverters, this research
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	Coordination of resources at the edge of the electricity grid:systematic review and taxonomyF.Charbonniera, ,T.MorstynbandM.McCullochaaDepartment of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, UKbSchool of Engineering, University of Edinburgh, UKARTICLE INFOKeywords:coordinationrenewable energypeer-to-peer energy tradingtransactive energysmart gridsdistributed energy resourcesABSTRACTThis paper proposes a novel taxonomy of coordination strategies for distributed energy resourcesat the edge of the electricity grid, based on a systematic analysis of key literature trends. Thecoordination of distributed energy resources such as decentralised generation and ﬂexibilitysources is critical for decarbonising electricity and achieving climate goals. The literature on thetopic is growing exponentially; however, there is ambiguity in the terminology used to date. Weseek to resolve this lack of clarity by synthesising the categories of coordination strategies in anovel exhaustive, mutually exclusive taxonomy based on agency, information and game type. Therelevance of these concepts in the literature is illustrated through a systematic literature reviewof 84,741 publications using a structured topic search query. Then 93 selected coordinationstrategies are analysed in more detail and mapped onto this framework. Clarity on structuralassumptions is key for selecting appropriate coordination strategies for di ering contexts withinenergy systems. We argue that a plurality of complementary strategies is needed to coordinateenergy systems di erent components and achieve deep decarbonisation.List of AbbreviationsADMM Alternating direction of multipliersICT Information and control technologyDLT Distributed ledge technologyL1 First layer of the proposed taxonomyDER Distributed energy resourceL2 Second layer of the proposed taxonomyDLMP Distribution locational marginal pricingL3 Third layer of the proposed taxonomyDR Demand responseML Machine learningDSO Distribution system operatorPV photovoltaicEMS Energy management systemP2P peer-to-peerEV Electric vehicleRL Reinforcement learningGDPR General data protection regulationTOU Time of useHVAC Heating, ventilation, and air conditioningUK United KingdomTable 1: Nomenclature1. IntroductionThis paper investigates how strategies for the coordination of grid-edge energy resources distributed energyresources (DERs) connected at the distribution network level 1 can be synthesised in a hierarchical classiﬁcationaccording to their structural similarities and di erences, referred to as a taxonomy 2 .Coordination of grid-edge resources could make a major contribution to power system decarbonisation, whichis critical for keeping anthropogenic warming below 1.5 C above pre-industrial levels. Exceeding this limit wouldseverely increase the risks of extreme climate events and associated impacts on health, livelihood, security andeconomic growth. Widespread electriﬁcation of primary energy provision and decarbonisation of the power sector are Corresponding author flora.charbonnier eng.ox.ac.uk(F. Charbonnier)ORCID(s):0000-0003-3174-0362(F. Charbonnier);0000-0003-2781-9588(T. Morstyn);0000-0001-5378-1128(M. McCulloch)F. Charbonnier et al.:PreprintPage 1 of 29 Coordination of resources at the edge of the electricity grid: systematic review and taxonomytherefore necessary, and renewable power supplies could be required to supply 70 to 85 of electricity globally by20501 3 . While numerous energy generation and enabling storage and ﬂexibility technologies exist and are emerging,a key challenge is their integration at an unprecedented scale. The coordination of energy ﬂexibility in all sectors isneeded for the integration of high levels of intermittent renewable energy, from the transmission to the distributionnetwork 3 .To achieve these coordination objectives, a robust decarbonised power system will rely on two major structuralfeatures: decentralisation and demand response (DR) 4 . As the ﬂexibility, control, and data ownership areincreasingly decentralised, DERs can provide such decentralised DR, as well as operational services such as frequencyregulation, spinning reserves provision, voltage management, system balancing and network congestion management 5,6 . Moreover, the coordination of ﬂexible DERs can yield numerous local and global co-beneﬁts: reduction ofenvironmental concerns, reduced energy transport and storage costs, improved grid stability, alignment of peak demandwith decarbonised energy provision in time and space, reduced costs of peaking plants and capacity reserves, deferralof transmission and distribution grid upgrades, energy independence and security, incentives for the contribution ofnumerous actors in investment, reduced bills for consumers, and enhanced social cohesion 7 10 . Extensive researchis therefore conducted to extend the realm of coordination to small, grid-edge resources in the distribution grid, and thescholarship on the coordination of resources at the edge of the electricity grid has been growing exponentially since1995 (Figure1). Particularly, novel research is seeking to tackle the challenges of computation and control at the scaleof millions of units 11 , privacy concerns and acceptability issues 7,8,12 , as well as increased uncertainty at thelocal level 13 .Although numerous reviews focus on speciﬁc areas within the ﬁeld of grid-edge energy resources coordination,they concentrate on limited aspects rather than systematically reviewing the landscape of coordination strategies, anduse conﬂicting terminology. Some reviews focus on one type of grid-edge resource only, for example on residentialthermal energy storage 14 or deferrable loads 15 . Others focus on speciﬁc segments of the electricity grid, such ason the residential context 16,17 , or on microgrids 18 21 . Previous reviews have analysed particular coordinationmethods such as market-based coordination 5,6,9,22 26 , optimisation 27 , particle swarm optimisation and geneticalgorithms 28 and reinforcement learning (RL) 7 . Others have investigated speciﬁc technological tools enablingcoordination, such as distributed ledger technologies (DLT) 29 and digital tools such as modelling, simulation andhierarchical control 30 . Tohidi et al. review grid-edge resources coordination indirectly, by investigating the possibleinteractions between local and central electricity markets 31 . Guerrero et al. investigate the technical issues associatedwith the implementation of behind-the-meter DERs coordination strategies in a low-voltage network 32 . Despiteall these individual thematic reviews, there is no systematic review and taxonomy of the ﬁeld of coordination ofresources at the edge of the electricity grid with applicability across energy technologies. The terminology used tocategorise DER coordination strategies within the literature have overlaps and inconsistencies, with terms such as peer-to-peer , multi-agent or transactive energy which may refer to coordination frameworks with fundamentallydi erent structural features. The resulting unproductive linguistic ambiguity impedes e ective communication andunderstanding in the ﬁeld, which can hinder both academic progress and collaboration with industry.This paper seeks to bridge this gap to bring greater clarity to the classiﬁcation and terminology in the ﬁeld of DERcoordination. The principal contributions of this paper are: The development of a novel comprehensive taxonomy for distributed resources coordination strategies, whichaims at clarifying the structural features of coordination strategies, as the terminology currently used to describethem is often ambiguous. The identiﬁcation of key research themes corresponding to the coordination categories through a systematicreview
__label__energy	This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible. 1 Abstract Solution of multi -year, dynamic AC Transmission network expansion planning (TNEP) problem is gradually taking center stage of planning research owing to its potential accuracy. However, computational burden for a security constrained AC TNEP is huge compared to that with DC TNEP. For a dynamic, security constrained AC TNEP problem, the computational burden becomes so very excessive that solution for even moderately sized systems becomes almost impossible. Hence, t his paper presents an efficient, four -stage solution methodology for multi -year, network N -1 contingency and voltage stability constrained , dynamic ACTNEP problems. Several intelligent logical strategies are developed and applied to reduce the computational burden of optimization algorithms. The proposed method ology is applied to Garver 6, IEEE 24 and 118 bus systems to demonstrate its efficiency and ability to solve TNEP for varying system size s. Index Terms Power system expansion planning, multi -year planning, intelligent algorithms, network security constraints . I. NOMENCLATURE Soumya Das is currently a Ph. D scholar in the Centre for Energy Studies, IIT Delhi, India (email: soumya.das ces.iitd.ac.in ) Ashu Verma is with the Centre for Energy Studies, IIT Delhi, India (e -mail: averma ces.iitd.ac.in ). P. R. Bijwe is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi, India (e -mail: prbijwe ee.iitd.ac.in ). II. INTRODUCTION OWER system networks worldwide have encountered fundamental change s owing to the ir unbundling and deregulation. In addition, environmental concerns to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are encouraging increasing the amount of integration of renewable source s after the e nactment of Kyoto protocol 1 . Solution of multi -year, dynamic transmission network expansion planning (TNEP) can adequately address this by providing the network planners not only the information on which lines to construct, but also the time of its cons truction within the planning horizon so that the overa ll investment cost is minimized and the uncertainties in future load generation can be addressed. However, owing to its NP-hard, mixed -integer, combinatorial nature, solution to such an optimization pr oblem is extremely complex. Consideration of network contingencies make it even formidable to solve. Extensive research has been conducted on this to pic in past few decades, although, with several simplifications. Therefore, i n existing literatures, resear chers have mostly used approximat ed DC formulation to solve the problem within a manageable time frame. A detailed and comprehensive review of the existing TNEP literature is presented in 2 . Metaheuristic methods are generally applied 3 8 . Mixed integer linear programming (MILP) approach with DC model has also been used by several researchers to solve multi -year TNEP 9 14 . Also, dynamic generation and transmission expansion planning in a DC framework are Soumya Das, Student Member, IEEE , Ashu Verma, Sr. Member, IEEE and P. R. Bijwe, Sr. Member, IEEE Efficient Multi -Year Security Constrained AC Transmission Network Expansion Planning P 𝜽𝒌𝒚 Vector of bus voltage angles 𝒏𝒌𝒚 Vector of system circuits 𝑆𝑙𝑦𝑘𝑓𝑟 Sending end MVA flow in each line of 𝑙𝑡ℎ corridor 𝑆𝑙𝑦𝑘𝑡𝑜 Receiving end MVA flow in each line of 𝑙𝑡ℎ corridor 𝑛 𝑙 Maximum limit on new lines in 𝑙𝑡ℎ power corridor 𝜔𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡 Total number of contingencies in a system 𝑁𝑏𝑢𝑠 Set of all buses in a system B. Parameters Related to Metaheuristic Algorithm 𝑐𝑠𝑁 Population colony size 𝐸ℎ Number of neighbours 𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑟 Maximum number of iterations per trial 𝑙𝑖𝑚 Parameter for generation of scout bees 𝑤𝑔 Parameter to control the effect of best solution 𝑡𝑝 Approximate t ime of solution per trial A. Variables, Sets and Parameters Related to TNEP 𝑣𝑑 Total investment cost referred to first year of planning 𝑇𝑦 Total number of years in planning horizon 𝑦 Year of planning 𝑘 Contingency state, 𝑘 0 denotes base case 𝑦ear, 𝑦: 𝐶𝑑𝑦 Discount factor for investment cost 𝑣𝑦 Total investment cost 𝑣𝑙𝑐𝑦 Line addition cost 𝑙𝑦 Power corridor between two buses 𝛺 Set of all power corridors 𝐶𝑙𝑦 Cost of line addition in the 𝑙𝑡ℎ power corridor 𝑛𝑙𝑦 Number of additional lines in the 𝑙𝑡ℎ power corridor 𝑁𝑙𝑑 Set of load buses of the system 𝑷𝑫𝒎𝒚 Vector of real power demand 𝑸𝑫𝒎𝒚 Vector of reactive power demand 𝒒𝒓𝒄𝒚 Vector of capacity of additional reactive sources 𝐿𝑦 Base case L -index value of the system 𝑦ear, 𝑦 and contingency, 𝑘: 𝑷𝒊𝒏𝒌𝒚 Vector of real power injections 𝑷𝑮𝒏𝒌𝒚 Vector of real power generations 𝑸𝒊𝒏𝒌𝒚 Vector of reactive power injections 𝑸𝑮𝒏𝒌𝒚 Vector of reactive power generations 𝑽𝒌𝒚 Vector of bus voltage magnitudes This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible. 2 solved in 1 5 17 . Due to i ncreased computational burden experienced in solving multi -year TNEP even in DC framework, several strategies for effective reduction of the same have also been explored by researchers. Heuristic strategies to solve the problem is presented by authors in 18 . In 19 , several strategies to reduce the combinatorial search space is proposed in solving multi -year TNEP ; and, a two-stage solution methodology for solving similar problem is presented in 20 . Primary drawback of using DCTNEP plans is that, as planning is obtained by neglecting system reactive power flows, direct application of them to AC networks can cause line overloads , and, in the worst case, in absence of proper reactive support, may lead to system voltage collapse. As in current deregulated scenario, maintaining an acceptable system voltage profile is a strict requirement, solution of ACTNEP is gradually gaining interest. However, due to extreme computational burden in solving non-linear network equations , only a few recent literatures explore linearized solution of these problems . MILP approach to solve security constrained multi -year ACTNEP is explored in 21 . Here, an initial DC solution is reinforced to obtain security constrained AC results. Such a formulation, although very effective
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 Smart Energy Management with Optimized Prosumerism for Achieving Dynamic Net-Zero Balance in Electrified Road Transport Networks Ferheen Ayaz, Maziar Nekovee Abstract The increasing number of Electric Vehicles (EVs) have led to rising energy demands which aggregates the burden on grid supply. A few solutions have been proposed to achieve demand and supply balance, for example, using storage systems for storing surplus energy from EVs or scheduling supply from the gird according to varying demand at different times. However, these solutions are costly and their applicability is limited to specific regions and times. This paper proposes a smart energy management solution for a massively electrified road transport network. It comprises of energy supplies from grid, charging stations, distributed renewable sources and EVs connected by 5G- enabled aggregators. We propose EVs as prosumers, which are energy consumers but also supply back their surplus energy via bidirectional Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) technology. We use machine learning models to forecast hourly energy output from renewable sources, surplus supply from EVs and their demands. Two types of renewable sources i.e., wind and photovoltaic systems and three types of EVs, i.e., car, bus and lorry with different specifications and battery capacities are considered. A grid cost minimization solution is proposed using Mixed Integer Linear Programming which dynamically alters supply according to demand and energy provision from EVs. The proposed solution also considers penalty charge for CO 2emissions during energy generation. The upper bounds of surplus supply and demand of EVs are theoretically derived. An incentive distribution mechanism is also presented to reward EVs offering their surplus supply and to discourage them to become selfish which is analyzed using Prisoner s dilemma game theory. Additionally, the paper presents an optimum number of charging stations on a road considering the incentives of EVs and their maximum contribution in supplying energy. Simulation results show that the proposed solution can effectively meet the demand requirements with increasing number of EVs, even if the supply from grid is limited, and can averagely reduce 38.21 of grid load. The optimization with prosumer EVs results in 5.3 of average cost reduction compared with optimization without prosumers. Also, the penalty charge for CO 2emissions results in over 50 cost reduction by using renewable resources in the proposed solution as compared to fossil fuels. The communication and computation complexity of the proposed solution is shown to be reduced with the exploitation of 5G-enabled aggregator. Index Terms EV , prosumer, energy management, optimiza- tion, MILP, emissions, V2G, prisoner s dilemma. I. I NTRODUCTION ELECTRIC Vehicles (EVs) are becoming an essential part of road transportation due to their positive impact on F. Ayaz and M. Nekovee are with the 6G Lab, School of Engineering and Informatics, University of Sussex, Brighton, BN1 9RH, U.K. e-mail: (f.ayaz sussex.ac.uk, m.nekovee sussex.ac.uk). The research leading to this publication is funded by the UKRI EPSRC Network Plus A Green Connected and Prosperous Britain .environment and reduced energy costs. By 2030, EVs are expected to globally share more than 80 of vehicle market 1 . However, consistent energy supply to increasing number of EVs is potentially a serious challenge for electricity grids 2 . Recent research presents solutions to reduce the burden on main power grids by extensive exploitation of microgrids 3 - 4 but they require substantial setup and installation cost, and their supply is also limited 5 . Optimizing charging schedules of EVs by determining peak demand hours 6 - 8 and adopting vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology to store excess energy from EVs during off-peak hours have been widely suggested to ease off the electricity generation requirements 9 . However, temporal prediction of demand from EVs is largely affected by outliers, such as an unusual incident and reduced travel during Covid-19 pandemic. Furthermore, battery storage systems are costly and experience degradation with time 10 . Apart from meeting rising energy demands, the grids must also adhere to environmental protection rules and restrictions on Carbondioxide (CO 2) emissions. Furthermore, achieving the net-zero goal in near future is another challenge. A net-zero balance in a region means that it has at least as much energy available as it consumes with no or negli- gible CO 2emissions 11 . With rising number of EVs, it is extremely challenging to meet transport energy demands with renewable resources alone. One of the emerging solutions to meet high demands is prosumerism, where consumers offer their surplus energy in exchange of some incentive 12 . The energy trading systems involving EVs as sellers have been thoroughly analyzed using game theoretic approaches 13 . Optimized pricing strategies have also been proposed to support prosumerism 14 . EVs can potentially play the role of prosumers if their batteries are sufficiently charged to sell a portion of their energy while also meeting their own demands. Therefore, the contribution of EVs in achieving net-zero is two-fold. They reduce emissions and can also act as energy suppliers to meet demands. However, one of the associated challenges is to find feasibility and the extent of practical applicability of prosumerism when EVs are traveling at high speeds on longer routes and their energy storage capabilities are limited. Secondly, distributed and scalable energy manage- ment systems are required with growing number of consumers and EVs 15 - 16 . Thirdly, EVs cannot maintain a net-zero balance alone if they are charged with energy generated from fossil fuels. Therefore, promoting renewable sources is equally important. The global policies to provide economic incentives for promoting clean energy is an additional benefit apart fromarXiv:2312.08162v1 eess.SY 12 Dec 2023 2 the environmental friendly feature of renewable sources 17 . Several renewable resources including wind, solar, geother- mal, hydropower and bioenergy are exploited to provide clean energy with reduced emissions. Wind and solar energy are among the most abundant sources in the world which are not depleted by their usage. Rapid reduction in their instal- lation cost has also been observed in the last decade 18 . Photovoltaic (PV) panels are used to convert solar energy into electricity. The output of a PV
__label__energy	1 Absorption of Carbon Dioxide in Kerogen Nanopores: A Mechanism Study using the Molecular Dynamics Monte Carlo Method Jie Liu1, Tao Zhang1 , Shuyu Sun1 1 Physics Science and Engineering, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal, Saudi Ar abia, 23955 -6900 Corresponding Author: tao.zhang.1 kaust.edu.sa , shuyu.sun kaust.edu.sa 2 ABSTRACT Carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology has been applied su ccessfully in recent decades to reduce carbon emissions and alleviate global warming. In this regard, shale reservoirs present tremendous potential for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) sequestration as they have a large number of nanopores . Molecular dynamics (MD) and MD Monte Carlo (MDMC ) methods were employed in this work to study the absorption behavior of CO 2 in shale organic porous media. The MDMC method is used to analyze the spatial states of CO 2, and th e results are in good agreement with MD s results , and it a lso perform s well in the acceleration compared to the classical MD. With regard to the kerogen matrix , its properties , such as the pore size distribution (PSD), pore volume, and surface area, are determined to describe its different compression states and the effects of CO 2 absorption on it. The potential energy distribution and potential of mean force are analyzed to verify the spatial distribution of CO 2 molecules. The heterogeneity of the pore structure resulted in heterogeneous distribution s of CO 2 molecules in kerogen porous media. Moreover, s trong compression of the matrix reduces the number of large pores, and the PSD is mainly between 0 and 15 Å. Despite the high interaction force of the kerogen matrix, the high -potential -energy region induced by t he kerogen skeleton also contributes to the formation of low -energy regions that encourage the entry of CO 2. An increase in temperature facilitates the absorption process, allowing CO 2 molecules to enter the isolated pores with stronger thermal motion, thereby increasing the storage capacity for CO 2. However , the development of geothermal energy may not be suitable for CO 2 sequestration. Keywords: Carbon dioxide sequestration; Kerogen; Shale; Molecular dynamics; Monte Carlo 3 1 Introduction In the last decades, carbon capture and storage ( CCS ) has been considered an effective technique for a lleviating global warming caused by excess carbon emissions 1, 2 . The most common methods for realizing successful CCS are geological sequestration, ocean storage, and natural capture and storage by plants 3 . Among these, geological sequestration has been widely used in many countries because of its excellent performance in storing carbon dioxide (CO 2) 4 . Although, petroleum and natural gas molecules are known to exist in rock porous media as free and adsorbed phases, studies on the absorption behavior of CO 2 molecules i n shale organic nanopores have not been conducted so far , preventing a comprehensive understanding of CO 2 sequestration. Different types of reservoirs have been utilized for CCS projects, including shale, carbonate, and sandstone reservoirs 5-7 . Among these, shale rocks have extremely low porosity and numerous nanopores , yielding a large surface area for adsorption 8 . Thus, efforts have been made to compare the adsorption capacities of CO 2 and shale gas 9, 10 , and their results reveal that CO 2 has greater affinity for the shale matrix than the shale gas. Furthermore , shale s extremely tight rock structure act as the gap rock to prevent CO 2 leakage, but organic matter can migrate into nanopores in a long -term stratigraphic evolution 11 . Consequently , the effect of CO 2 on the changes in organic nanostructures of shale is crucial for the sealing layer. Not only does the shale reservoirs exhibit great potential for storing and sealing CO 2, but CO 2 has been widely used to enhance oi l recovery 12, 13 . Therefore , CO 2 and shale interaction research is crucial for various engineering applications. Organic matter is commonly found in shale reservoirs because of its self-generating and self-storing properties 14 . Oil and natural gas are derived from kerogen, which represents the majority of organic matter 15, 16 . In this regard, Bousige et al. 17 built realistic kerogen molecular models using a hybrid experimental simulation method and adopted the 4 CO 2 adsorption experiment to probe micropores in the kerogen matrix, where the pore size distribution (PSD) was mostly below 10 Å. Meanwhile, Ungerer et al. 18 classified various kerogen types on the basis of maturities and proposed corresponding molecular models, and the density was set as 1. 0 g cm 3 for the type I kerogen matrix. Moreover , Zhang et al. 19 conducted simulations on oil shale with a kerogen density of 1. 0 g cm 3. By performing simulations with a kerogen density of 0 .95 g cm 3, Facelli et al. 20 demonstrated good agreement between the results of simulation and experimental measurements using actual samples. Therefore, the appropriate modeling of the kerogen matrix must be care fully considered to obtain accurate results. Although CO 2 has already been utilized in the development of shale energy for decades, CO 2-related problems in nanopores remain a major challenge that is often encountered in laboratories. Molecular dynamics (MD ) simulation, a particle method based on the Lagrange coordinate 21, 22 , is capable of tackling the interaction behaviors and mechanism explanation at the nanoscale, and this method has been applied to some kerogen -related and CO 2-related problems successfully in recent years 23-26 . In this regard, Perez et al. 27 studied the adsorption of multicomponent fluids within the kerogen matrix via molecular simulations . Their findings indicated that CO 2 molecules are preferentially adsorbed onto the surface of kerogen pores and diffuse d into the kerogen inner matrix . Meanwhile, Psarras et al. 28 investigated the CO 2 storage capacity in kerogen using molecular simulations by measuring the surface properties of nanopores with diameters below 15 Å. CO 2 was shown
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Electric Grid Topology and Admittance Estimation: Quantifying Phasor-based Measurement Requirements Norak Rin, Iman Shames, Ian R. Petersen, and Elizabeth L. Ratnam Abstract In this paper, we quantify voltage and current phasor-based measurement requirements for the unique estima- tion of the electric grid topology and admittance parameters. Our approach is underpinned by the concept of a rigidity matrix that has been extensively studied in graph rigidity theory. Specifically, we show that the rank of the rigidity matrix is the same as that of a voltage coefficient matrix in a corresponding electric power system. Accordingly, we show that there is a minimum number of measurements required to uniquely estimate the admittance matrix and corresponding grid topology. By means of a numerical example on the IEEE 4-node radial network, we demonstrate that our approach is suitable for applications in electric power grids. I. I NTRODUCTION Globally, power systems are transforming in response to climate change, while adapting to withstand more severe and frequent weather events 1 , 2 . To support power system operators in adapting to the electric grid transformation, enhanced real-time estimation of the grid topology, admit- tance parameters, and conductor loadings under evolving grid conditions are necessary including at the distribution level which has historically had very limited monitoring 3 . As the electric grid transformation progresses, new ap- proaches to real-time grid topology and admittance parameter estimation are emerging 4 , 5 . Topology identification of both the transmission and distribution grid coupled with admittance parameter estimation enables the development of control technology to improve grid-resilience 6 . Grid- resilience tasks include detecting the location and types of faults occurring in power systems during severe weather events which facilitates the safe and swift restoration of the electricity supply 7 . Many authors have proposed model-based methods to identify the grid topology based on measurement data from grid sensors including phasor measurement units (PMUs) 8 10 . For instance, Deka et al. in 8 propose a graphical model learning algorithm to estimate electrically connected edges in a radial grid topology based on conditional in- dependence tests for voltage measurements. Cavraro et al. in 9 propose an algorithm to detect switching events that change the topology of the electric grid. Specifically, the data-driven algorithm in 9 compares voltage measurements from micro-PMUs with a library of signatures representing possible topology changes. By using smart meter data, Zhao N. Rin, I. Shames, and I. R. Petersen: School of Engineering, The Australian National University, Australia. (E-mail: norak.rin anu.edu.au; iman.shames anu.edu.au; ian.petersen anu.edu.au). N. Rin is also with CSIRO, Australia. E. L. Ratnam: Department of Electrical and Computer Systems Engineer- ing, Monash University, Australia. (E-mail: liz.ratnam monash.edu).et al. 10 propose a topology identification method of a distribution grid by analysing the nodal voltage correlations based on a Markov Random Field (MRF) structure model. By contrast, data-driven methods have been proposed to achieve both topology and admittance parameter estimation 11 13 . For example, Yu et al. in 11 propose a data- driven algorithm to jointly estimate the topology and admit- tance parameters based on voltage and current measurements and the power flow equations. Specifically, the admittance parameters are estimated via a maximum-likelihood method while the topology is identified by constructing the bus admittance matrix from the estimated admittance parameters. The authors in 12 offer an approach to online topology and admittance estimation based on a least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression method and a matrix decomposition algorithm that ingress time-series volt- age and current phasor measurements. The authors in 13 propose an algorithm based on graph theory to estimate the admittance matrix when measurement data is not available at each node. Several authors have proposed regression-based methods for both topology and admittance parameter estimation. For example, Lang et al. in 14 propose an admittance parameter estimation problem using a structured total least squares method with the layout of the problem formulation similar to our study. However, the approach in 14 assumes that the grid topology is known in advance. Similarly, Mishra and de Callafon in 15 propose an estimation problem to identify three-phase line admittance in the electric grid using a recursive least squares approach with synchrophasor measurements. The approach in 15 mentions the required number of measurements to estimate the admittance param- eters but only for the case where the grid topology is known in advance. None of the aforementioned approaches 8 14 , with the exception of 15 , quantify the number of measurements required to estimate the grid topology and admittance parameters. In this paper, we show that there is a minimum number of measurements required to uniquely estimate both the grid topology and admittance parameters for power system networks in the absence of any prior knowledge about the grid physics or topology. We show that with voltage and current synchrophasor data available at each node in a transmission or distribution grid, we can estimate the respective grid topology and admittance parameters through the formation of an admittance matrix. Specifically, we investigate the invertibility of a set of equations which are solved to find the admittance parameters. These equationsarXiv:2410.17553v2 eess.SY 17 Feb 2025 are derived using Kirchhoff s laws. We then develop a connection between this invertibility condition and a rigidity matrix used in graph rigidity theory 16 . We show that the invertibility condition is equivalent to a condition on the rank of the rigidity matrix. With this rank information, we then determine the minimum number of voltage and current measurements required to estimate the grid topology and admittance parameters. This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the topology and admittance matrix of an electrical network. In Section 3, we introduce the concept of a rigidity matrix and its relevance to estimating the topology and admittance matrix of the electrical network. In Section 4, we present a simple numerical example for the IEEE 4-node radial network. Section 5 concludes the paper. Notation LetRnandCndenote the sets of n-dimensional vectors of real and complex numbers, respectively. Let
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Stress state evolution of a cemented granular material subjected to bond dissolution by Discrete Element Modeling Alexandre Sac-Morane1,2 , Hadrien Rattez1and Manolis Veveakis2 1Institute of Mechanics, Materials and Civil Engineering, UCLouvain, Place du Levant 1, Louvain-la-Neuve, 1348, Belgium. 2Multiphysics Geomechanics Lab, Duke University, Hudson Hall Annex, Room No. 053A, Durham, 27708, NC, USA. Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): alexandre.sacmorane duke.edu; Contributing authors: hadrien.rattez uclouvain.be; manolis.veveakis duke.edu; Abstract Rock weathering is a common phenomenon to consider in various engineering applications that involve underground operations, such as underground storage or geothermal energy extraction. This weathering is induced by the circulation of a reacting fluid in the pores of the rock and can induce changes in materials properties and stress state. This work presents discrete elements simulations of the dissolution of sedimentary rocks to study their stress state evolution. The rock is modeled as a cohesive granular material subjected to debonding. Oedo- metric conditions are considered during the weathering and the evolution of the coefficient of lateral earth pressure k0, a proxy of the stress state, is tracked. In particular, the influence of the degree of cementation, the confining pressure, the initial value of k0and the history of loading are investigated. It has been observed that cemented granular materials tend to reach an attractor configura- tion for the stress state with the increase of the degree of dissolution. k0aims to reach the kattr 0 value, between 0.3 and 0.4, when all the bounds are dissolved, independently of the initial state. Two main mechanisms have been observed to explain this evolution of the interparticles force configurations and thus of the stress state: the collapse of the unstable chain forces (stable only due to the cementation) and the softening of the grains. Keywords: discrete element method, weathering, k0evolution, debonding, chemo-mechanical couplings 1arXiv:2404.05390v3 cond-mat.mtrl-sci 28 Mar 2025 Highlights A cemented granular material subjected to debonding by dissolution is investigated in oedometric conditions by the discrete element method. The influence of several parameters on the evolution of the ratio of horizontal to vertical stresses, i.e. the k0coefficient, is illustrated. The existence of an attractor configuration for the stress state is observed when the degree of dissolution increases. Two main mechanisms can explain our observations: the collapse of the unstable chain force (stable only due to the cementation) and the softening of the grains. 1 Introduction To diminish the impact of human activity on climate evolution, one approach involves the utilization of renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar power, to generate electricity. However, these energy sources are characterized by variability, necessitating the development of strategies for energy storage and utilization. A promising approach involves the transformation of excess energy into H2. The challenge, however, lies in identifying suitable methods to store the produced H2, which must be subsequently extracted and consumed during periods of energy deficiency. It has been posited that underground storage and salt caverns hold considerable promise for this purpose, offering a greater storage capacity than conventional aboveground infrastructure such as pipelines or tanks 1, 2 . Likewise, geothermal energy appears as an efficient method to produce energy, and it is defined as the injection of a fluid underground to extract the thermal energy of the Earth 3, 4 . Furthermore, deep aquifers have emerged as a promising medium for the sequestration of greenhouse gases, including CO 2 5 . This engineering application, added to the emergence of renewable energy production, participates in the reduction of the impact of human activities on climate change. If H2 storage and geothermal energy production involve a fluid injection and extraction, CO 2 sequestration implies only injection, necessitating underground retention. To assess the viability of the H2storage and CO 2sequestration techniques, various pilot projects have been initiated 6, 7, 8, 9 . The injection of the fluid into a geomaterial reservoir induces a modification of the fluid chemical composition, and thus its reactivity with the surrounding solid phases, activating or enhancing chemical processes 10, 11 . The consequences are numerous: settlement at the surface 12, 13, 14, 15 , modifications of the mechanical 2, 16, 17 and hydraulic 18, 19, 20 properties, or threat to the stability of the caprock 21, 22 . It has even been correlated to earthquake nucleation 23, 24, 25, 26 . These phenomena and consequences observed in the context of the previously described engineering applications are similar to the numerous examples in nature where geomechanics and chemistry appear deeply intertwined, such as weathering 27, 28 . Even if the kinetics of the natural processes is much slower than the kinetics of the engineering-induced consequences, Terzaghi pointed out that long-term phenomena are the main causes of the instabilities rather than single events 29 , requiring investigation. The impact of weathering, due to natural processes or engineering applications, on the mechanical behavior of geomaterials has been previously investigated through both 2 experiments 30, 31, 32, 33 and numerical simulations 17, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 for sands (unbonded material) and rocks (bonded material) in a range of configurations. However, only a limited number of studies have focused on examining the influence of weathering on the stress state of the material, even if it can induce the material to reach the yield limit 41 . A seminal paper on the evolution of the stress state during weathering was pub- lished by Vaughan and Kwan in 1984 28 . In this work, the authors developed a theoretical model to study the evolution of the stress state during the weathering of rocks to form residual soils. More recently, experimental investigations of dissolu- tion have been conducted using soft oedometer tests, which allow the measurement of radial stresses 42 . These tests have been performed with calcarenite and artificially cemented sand 43 , glass beads mixed with salt grains 44 or carbonate sand 45 . The majority of these studies have focused on non-cohesive granular materials, except 43 , in which the authors observed an increase in radial stress during dissolution by an acid solution in both the artificially
__label__energy	A Fault Prognostic System for the Turbine Guide Bearings of a Hydropower Plant Using Long -Short Term Memory (LSTM) Yasir Saleem Afridi1, Mian Ibad Ali Shah2 , Adnan Khan1, Atia Kareem1, Laiq Hasan1 Department of Computer Systems Engineering, University of Engineering Technology Peshawar, Peshawar, Pakistan1 School of Computer Science , University of Galway , Galway, Ireland2 ABSTRACT Hydroelectricity, being a renewable source of energy, globally fulfills the electricity demand. Hence, Hydropower Plants (HPPs) have always been in the limelight of research. The fast -paced technological advancement is enabling us to develop state -of-the-art power generation machines. This has not only resulted in improved turbine efficiency but has also increased the complexity of these systems. In lieu thereof, efficient Operation Maintenance (O M) of such intricate power generation systems has become a more challenging task. Therefore, there has been a shift from conventional reactive approaches to more intelligent predictive approaches in maintaining the HPPs. The research is therefore targeted to develop an artificially intelligent fault prognostics s ystem for the turbine bearings of an HPP. The proposed method utilizes the Long Short -Term Memory (LSTM) algorithm in developing the model. Initially, the model is trained and tested with bearing vibration data from a test rig. Subsequently, it is further trained and tested with realistic bearing vibration data obtained from an HPP operating in Pakistan via the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. The model demonstrates highly effective predictions of bearing vibration values, achieving a remarkably low RMSE. Key Words: LSTM, Renewable energy, Prognosrics, Machine Learning 1. INTRODUCTIO N In world energy consumption, hydropower contributes an astonishing 11,300 TWh 1 . Keeping in view such large share , the optimization of hydropower generation and operations becomes notably consequential , encompassing economic and societal dimensions. The advantages of optimizing hydropower operations are multifaceted and extend beyond the enhancement of energy production. They encompass augmented energy security, mitigation of equipment failures and downtimes, extension of remaining useful life (RUL) f or plant and equipment, among others. Notably, machine downtimes resulting from faults trigger an expansion in the demand -supply gap, a scenario with grave consequences. Hence, the necessity for cutting -edge Operation and Maintenance (O M) systems becomes imperative. Nevertheless, attaining the aspiration of optimal hydropower plant (HPP) operation is far from straightforward . In the realm of continuous production systems, such as electricity generation facilities, the cost incurred due to production loss during plant unavailability amid faults is exceedingly substantial. Considering this, well -devised maintenance procedures play a pivotal role in sustaining seamless equipment operation throughout its economic lifespan. These maintenance methodologies fall broadly into three categories: corrective, preventive, and predictive maintenan ce. In the context of Hydropower Plants (HPPs) , the prevalent maintenance practices predominantly encompass preventive and corrective approaches 2 . The corrective approach is reactive in nature, entailing maintenance actions solely subsequent to the occurrence of faults. This conventional strategy for fault rectification is widely embraced 9 . On the contrary, preventive maintenance involves schedule d periodic upkeep of equipment, undertaken to diminish the likelihood of its malfunctioning 9 . This proactive method is performed while the equipment is still operational, ensuring it doesn t encounter unforeseen breakdowns. Conversely, prognostics revol ves around the anticipation of faults and failures, aiming to predict when a system or component will cease to execute its intended function 9 . Given its efficacy in curbing unwarranted downtimes, prognostic maintenance has emerged as a focal point of co ntemporary research efforts. 1.1 MACHINE PROGNOSTICS Prognostics can be categorized into two primary domains: data -driven approaches and model - based physics -based approaches 24, 28, 36 . In physics -based methodologies, the development of models integrates domain expertise along with measured data through ma thematical equations, considering the underlying physical laws. However, these physics -based approaches come with certain drawbacks. Firstly, their performance heavily hinges on the accuracy and quality of domain knowledge 24 . In practical scenarios, obtaining high -caliber domain knowledge can be challenging due to complexities and noisy operational conditions, subsequently impacting the model s robustness. Secondly, many of these models struggle to perform effectively in real -time settings, thereby curta iling their adaptability 23 . Conversely, data -driven models discern patterns from historical data, enabling informed decisions based on sensor -derived information 27 . Moreover, the proliferation of advanced computing devices and sophisticated sensors heightens the appeal of these data -driven condition monitoring systems 29 . Therefore, this research integrates a data-driven framework that leverages the data acquired from sensors as input to the model. Sensor data consists of time series data that are sampled and pr esented sequential ly 24 . The data is processed by an algorithm in two distinct phases: firstly, the model is trained using historical data, and subsequently, the model is tested using current data. 1.2 USE OF BEARING DATA The data is collected through various sensors strategically placed on critical components of machinery. Among these components, bearings play a crucial role, particularly in heavy -load mechanical systems like turbines 7, 8, 14, 21 . Bearings are vital for guiding and supporting rotating machine shafts. Given the demanding operational conditions, even a minor fault in bearings can lead to catastrophic consequences for the machinery, resulting in substantial financial losses 2 . Consequently, there exists a paramount need to swiftly detect bearing faults and embrace a proactive maintenance approach 6, 20 . Considering the pivotal role of bearings in plant operations and the frequency of related faults, this research concentrates on designing a prognostic maintenance system. The objective is to forecast bearing faults by analyzing the vibration data gathered from embedded sensors. The proposed solution employs an Artificial Intelligence (AI) model built on the LSTM algorithm. The primary goal is to effectivel y anticipate and predict faults occurring in hydropower turbine bearings. 1.3 LITERATURE REVIEW Researchers globally have been actively engaged in forecasting bearing failures using diverse AI techniques, including Machine Learning (ML) algorithms like Deep Neural Networks (DNNs). Numerous studies have applied these methods to prognostic
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	PYPSA MEETS AFRICA : DEVELOPING AN OPEN SOURCE ELECTRICITY NETWORK MODEL OF THE AFRICAN CONTINENT A P REPRINT Desen Kirli School of Engineering University of Edinburgh Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom desen.kirli ed.ac.uk Johannes Hampp Center for International Development and Environmental Research Justus-Liebig-University Giessen Giessen, Germany johannes.hampp zeu.uni-giessen.de Koen van Greevenbroek Department of Computer Science UiT The Arctic University of Norway Tromsø, Norway koen.v.greevenbroek uit.no Rebecca Grant School of Geosciences University of Edinburgh Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom r.grant-20 sms.ed.ac.uk Matin Mahmood School of Informatics University of Edinburgh Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom m.mahmood-3 sms.ed.ac.ukMaximilian Parzen School of Engineering University of Edinburgh Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom max.parzen ed.ac.uk Aristides Kiprakis School of Engineering University of Edinburgh Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom kiprakis ed.ac.uk October 22, 2021 ABSTRACT Electricity network modelling and grid simulations form a key enabling element for the integration of newer and cleaner technologies such as renewable energy generation and electric vehicles into the existing grid and energy system infrastructure. This paper reviews the models of the African elec- tricity systems and highlights the gaps in the open model landscape. Using PyPSA (an open Power System Analysis package), the paper outlines the pathway to a fully open model and data to increase the transparency in the African electricity system planning. Optimisation and modelling can reveal viable pathways to a sustainable energy system, aiding strategic planning for upgrades and policy- making for accelerated integration of renewable energy generation and smart grid technologies such as battery storage in Africa. Keywords Africa electricity access electricity grid geospatial modelling network modelling open data open source software transmission systemarXiv:2110.10628v1 eess.SY 20 Oct 2021 PyPSA meets Africa: Developing an open source electricity network model of the African continent A P REPRINT 1 Introduction Open models and open-modelling initiatives bridge the gap between policy-making and long-term planning performed by researchers. For developing countries, including but not limited to the ones located in the African continent, it is essential to simulate long-term energy generation and consumption scenarios, considering economic viability, risk and rate of return as these are key for investments in rural electriﬁcation and integration of renewable energy sources (RES). Existing open models and tools targeting Africa focus largely on regional electriﬁcation pathways and RES integration, but there is also recent development in continent-wide models. We review relevant open modelling efforts, and ﬁnd a need for a high resolution long-term investment optimisation model for Africa. The main contributions of this paper are outlined below: A review of the existing open energy systems models of Africa in both academic and non-academic context. A roadmap for a new open python-based investment and dispatch optimisation model for the African energy system, with a high spatial and temporal resolution and accurate modelling of the transmission grid. The proposed model will enable long-term analysis of factors such as RES integration, transmission expansion, electric vehicles and smart grid technologies. Since May 2021, the model development started with more than 27 members associated with European and African leading institutions in research and academia. A ﬁrst prototype is aimed to be made available by the end of 2021. More information and the current developments can be accessed on the project website1and documentation2. 2 Motivation Review of the Existing Work and Initiatives In this section, the motivation for an open high-resolution energy model for Africa is outlined. Following this, we summarise the most relevant non-academic projects that promote open energy modelling in the African continent. In the second subsection, we review the academic literature that features existing open models and simulation tools used for either the whole continent or smaller regions in Africa. Lastly, we conclude this section by highlighting the gap that our proposed model addresses. 2.1 Motivation and current developments for energy planning in Africa The main motivation behind most African energy models is to investigate and enable an increasing rate of electriﬁca- tion linked to the rapid urbanisation, economic development and population growth in the African continent 1 . In order to meet this predicted increase in electricity demand, respect limitations such as the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and help implement the UN s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Agreement and Africa acute.ts1s Agenda 2063, different assets (e.g. hydropower plants, wind turbines, batteries, etc.) and the African electricity transmission grid should be modelled. Additionally, other planned developments such as new transmission lines should be taken into account in long-term energy modelling. Figure 1 shows planned interconnection projects between various countries in Africa. This is an example of many initiatives that attempt to increase the capacity and resilience of the African grid in order to prepare for the predicted increase in electricity demand. It is also a testament to the need for continent-level modelling. In order to simulate the techno-economic beneﬁts and costs of such planned developments and also test different RES policies, organisations such as the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), European Union (EU), International Energy Agency (IEA), United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), African Climate Policy Centre (ACPC) and World Bank Group (WBG) provide funding, modelling expertise and also promote the use of open modelling tools 3 5 . To increase the contribution from RES, IRENA 3 established the Africa Clean Energy Corridor (ACEC) initiative. Using MESSAGE , IRENA constructed several System Planning Test (SPLAT) models for 47 African countries. How- ever, the SPLAT models focus on the analysis of zones that have a high solar and or wind energy generation potential 1https: pypsa-meets-africa.github.io 2https: pypsa-meets-africa.readthedocs.io en latest index.html 2 PyPSA meets Africa: Developing an open source electricity network model of the African continent A P REPRINT Figure 1: Interconnector expansion plans of the World Bank Programme for Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA) 2 . Blue and green lines refer to the 2020 Priority Action Plan and the 2040 plan respectively. and have a resolution of 5 to 10-year time steps. This tool is free for academic use only and the source code is not open, preventing external validation contributions. Another modelling initiative is the Energy Modelling Platform Africa (EMP-A) 5 which
__label__energy	arXiv:2503.07149v1 math.OC 10 Mar 2025Optimal Operation of Renewable Energy Communities under Demand Response Programs Gianni Bianchini, Marco Casini, Milad Gholami Dipartimento di Ingegneria dell Informazione e Scienze Ma tematiche Universit a di Siena, Via Roma 56, 53100 Siena, Italy Abstract Within the context of renewable energy communities, this paper foc uses on optimal operation of producers equipped with energy storage systems in the presence of demand response. A novel strategy for optimal scheduling of the storage systems of the co mmunity members under price- volumedemandresponseprograms,isdevised. Theunderlyingoptim izationproblemisdesignedas a low-complexity mixed-integer linear programthat scales well with th e community size. Once the optimal solution is found, an algorithm for distributing the demand re sponserewardsis introduced in order to guarantee fairness among participants. The proposed approach ensures increased beneﬁts for producers joining a community compared to standalon e operation. Keywords: Renewable Energy Communities; Demand Response; Electrical Ener gy Storage; Optimization 1. Introduction To mitigate the environmental impact of electric energy systems an d facilitate the transition toward net-zero CO 2emissions 1 , several paradigms and strategies have been propose d in the literature. Among these, renewable energy communities (RECs) an d demand response (DR) programs stand out as particularly promising tools. A REC consists of a collective of entities that engage in energy excha nge through the power grid 2, 3 . The primary objective of a REC is to deliver social, economic, and environmental beneﬁts to its members by eﬀectively coordinating their load, gener ation, and storage assets 4 . While national regulations often governREC organization 5 , individu al communities retain some autonomy as far as the operation strategy for their activities is co ncerned. One of the main objectives of such strategy is to optimize the overall welfare comin g from active participation of the entities in the REC. In this respect, suitable rules must be impleme nted for the redistribution Email addresses: giannibi diism.unisi.it (Gianni Bianchini), casini diism.unisi.it (Marco Casini), gholami diism.unisi.it (Milad Gholami) Preprint submitted to Energy March 11, 2025 of beneﬁts among participants, ensuring that no member may ﬁnd it advantageous to exit the community 6 . Moreover, the redistribution policy should ensure fair ness among participants 7 . Demand response programs represent another avenue for redu cing environmental impact 8 12 . In this framework, participants voluntarily adjust their load pr oﬁles in response to speciﬁc requests by an aggregator (e.g., the Distribution System Operato r (DSO)), thereby providing ancillaryservicesto the grid, such as peak power reduction and enh anced network stability 13 . In exchange, a monetary reward is granted to participants that fulﬁ ll a given DR request. In addition to the ﬂexibility providedbyloadproﬁleshaping, the optimal operatio nofelectricalenergystorage (EES) systems can contribute to achieving DR goals 14, 15 . In this r espect, RECs have been found to represent an important source of DR ﬂexibility, especially w hen equipped with EES facilities 16 . Optimized scheduling of a smart community with shared st orage in the presence of DR is addressed in 17 . A comprehensive review of DR programs and th eir potential application to RECs is available in the literature 18 . This paper deals with the integration of incentive-based DR 19, 20 in the design of REC operation policies. In particular, we focus on the so-called price-vo lume model. In this paradigm, customers receive monetary incentives for maintaining consumptio n below a speciﬁed threshold during ﬁxed time intervals. Price-volume DR has been successfully ap plied in various contexts, including load forecasting 21, 22 , smart buildings 23, 24 , and electric vehicle charging station management 25 . Our study diverges from existing research which m ainly focuses on load proﬁle shaping, both in the general smart grid 26 28 and in the speciﬁc RE C context 29 31 , by investigating how DR requests can be eﬀectively met through optimiz ed operation of individual EES systems associated with renewable generation sources (e.g., p hotovoltaic (PV) panels or wind turbines) in a REC. Speciﬁcally, we assume that the DSO communic ates a price-volume DR program to the REC at the beginning of each day and grants an incen tive if the overallcommunity load generation lies within prescribed thresholds in given time interva ls. These thresholds align with periods where net load reduction supports grid stability. To the best of our knowledge, this problem remains unexplored in the literature. 1.1. Paper contribution This paper addresses the design of an optimal scheduling policy enab ling renewable energy producers equipped with battery energy storage systems (BESS ) to participate in a price-volume DRprogramwithin aREC.Themaincontributionsoftheworkcanbesu mmarizedinthefollowing points. A novel formulation is introduced for the problem of optimal manage ment of storagesystems connected to renewable generation plants within a REC in the presen ce of price-volume DR requests. A speciﬁc feature of the proposed approach is that it a lways guarantees an addi- 2 tional economic beneﬁt to producers participating in the REC with re spect to autonomous (standalone) operation. The optimization problem stemming from su ch formulation turns out to be a low-complexity mixed-integer linear program (MILP) involv ing few binary vari- ables, thus making the approach computationally feasible even for la rge REC memberships. For the problem introduced above, two diﬀerent objective functio ns are proposed and com- pared. One is oriented toward the maximization of the total commun ity revenue from DR, while the other aims to maximize the total proﬁt of REC producers. An algorithm to partition the overall community DR reward among REC members is de- signed. Such an assignment guarantees distribution of the reward among participant entities according to a fairness principle. Performance evaluation is carried out via extensive numerical simula tions, showing pros and cons of the proposed approach and of the considered objective funct ions. 1.2. Paper structure The paper is organized as follows: in Section 2, the considered proble m is formulated and models of REC entities and DR requests are reported. In Section 3, the optimization problem that yields the storage system operation policy is designed,
__label__energy	1 DC electricity generation from dynamic polarized water -semiconductor interface Yanfei Yan1,2 , Xu Zhou3 , Sirui Feng1,2 , Yanghua Lu1,2 , Jianhao Qian4, Panpan Zhang1, Xutao Yu1, Yujie Zheng1, Fengchao Wang4, Kaihui Liu3, Shisheng Lin1,2 1: College of Microelectronics, College of Information Science and Electronic Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310027, China 2: State Key Laboratory of Modern Optical Instrumentation, Zheji ang University, Hangzhou, 310027, China 3: State Key Lab for Mesoscopic Physics and Frontiers Science Center for Nano -optoelectronics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, School of Physics, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China 4: CAS Key Laboratory of Mechanical Behavior and Design of Materials Department of Modern Mechanics, CAS Center for Excellence in Nanoscience, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, 230027, China Corresponding author. Tel: 86 -0571 -87951555 Email: shishenglin zju.edu.cn . Abstract Liquid electricity generator and hydrovoltaic technology have received numerous attentions, which can be divided into horizontal movement generator and vertical movement generator. The horizontal movement generator is limited for powering the integrated and miniaturized energy chip as the current out put direction is depending 2 on the moving direction of the water droplet, which means a sustainable and continuous direct current output can be hardly achieved because of the film of limited length. On the other hand, the existing vertical movement generato rs include triboelectricity or humidity gradient -based liquid electricity generator, where the liquid or water resource must be sustainably supplied to ensure continuous current output. Herein, we have designed an integratable vertical generator by sandwic hing water droplets with semiconductor and metal, such as graphene or aluminum. This generator, named as polarized liquid molecular generator (PLMG), directly converts the lateral kinetic energy of water droplet into vertical direct -electricity with an out put voltage of up to 1.0 V from the dynamic water -semiconductor interface. The fundamental discovery of PLMG is related to the non -symmetric structure of liquid molecules, such as water and alcohols, which can be polarized under the guidance of built-in field caused by the Fermi level difference between metal and semiconductor, while the symmetric liquid molecules cannot produce any electricity on the opposite. Integratable PLMG with a large output power of 90 nW and voltage of 2.7 V has been demonstrate d, meanwhile its small internal resistance of 250 k takes a huge advantage in resistance matching with the impedance of electron components. The PLMG shows potential application value in the Internet of Things after proper miniaturization and integration . Main Water covers the 71 surface of the earth and there are many ways of producing electricity from water1-6, where the most popular and commercialized way is driving 3 the electromagnetic generator through the movement of water7, 8 since the Faraday effect was revealed in the middle of 19th century9. In the past decade, generating electricity from the moving wat er in the absence of a magnetic field has received numerous attention s as a result of the requirement of portable energy sources for highly developed human society, especially the Internet of Things (IoT s). There are two lines of utilizing the mechanical e nergy of water: one is the vertical movement of water, such as triboelectricity10-12, contact electrification13,14 and moisture gradient15,16 induced electricity , where the water droplet needs to sustainably hit on the surface of the device or a humidity gradient needs to be reestablished. And the other is named horizontal movement generator17-21 where the water dro plet moves or water is evaporated along the surface of graphene or functional group decorated carbon film. For the vertical movement type, the recollection process of water adds complexity to the design of the generator with required and sustainable voltag e or current. For the lateral movement type, the output electricity direction is dependent on the moving direction of the water droplet, which means a sustainable electricity output is hardly achieved as the length of the film is limited. Learning from th e information society, every chip is composed of numerous transistors, an integratable liquid electricity generator is indispensable for the sustainable advancement of energy density, which requires a liquid generator sustainably worked under a circular sp ace without the evaporation of liquid or water droplet.22-27 Only based on this kind of generator, the miniaturization of the water generator for constructing a water generator chip different from the electromagnetic 4 generator can be promised. For the direct current output, we must design a generator whose electricity output direction is not changed as the moving direction of water droplet changes, which means the traditional lateral water generator cannot be utilized for liquid generator energy chip . For the sustainable electricity output, we must design a closed space without evaporating the water as it takes energy to recover the water resource or humidity gradient. Herein, w e designed a water droplet sandwiched dynamic polarized water generator where the water droplet is confined between metal (such as graphene and aluminum) and semiconductor substrates. The key to the electricity output is the polarization of water and other nonsymmetric molecular on the semiconductor substrate as a result of Fermi l evel difference between metal and semiconductor. The direction of electricity generation is fixed while the moving direction of liquid changes, that is, a direct current with fixed direction can be generated when we move the water droplet between the metal and semiconductor at will. As one of the typical PLMG, the dynamic graphene water n -silicon and aluminum (Al) water n -silicon generator with a small moving water droplet output a large direct -voltage of 0.28 and 1.0 V , respectively. In addition, other f eatures including the small internal resistance of 250 k , the large output current of 2.2 A and power of 90 nW, declare its improvement on performance in the field of the self-powered generators . The performance of the generator is further improved to a voltage of 2.7 V by connecting 3 generators in -series, which is already comparable with a commercial dry battery. The demonstrated generator with novel
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	1 Abstract - The aim of distribution networks is to meet their local area power demand with maximum reliability. As the electricity consumption tends to increase every year , limited line thermal capacity can lead to network congestion. C ontinuous development and upgradation of the distribution network is thus required to meet the ener gy demand , which poses a significant increase in cost. The objective of this research is to analyze distribution network topologies and introduce a topology reconfiguration scheme based on the cost and demand of electricity . Traditional electrical distribu tion networks are static and inefficient . To make the network active, a n optimal dynamic network topology reconfiguration (DNTR) is proposed to control line switchin g and reconnect some loads to different substation s such that the cost of electricity can be minimize d. The proposed DNTR strategy was tested on a synthetic radial distribution network with three substations each connecting to an IEEE 13-bus system . Simulation results demonstrate d significant cost saving in daily operations of this distribution system . Index Terms - Distribution network topology, Dynamic distribution system, Mixed -integer linear programming, Network reconfiguration, Power system flexibility, Topology control . NOMENCLATURE Sets: I Substations N Buses K Non-flexible lines L Flexible line s K(n-) Non-Flexible l ines of which bus n is the from -bus K(n ) Non-Flexible l ines of which bus n is the to -bus L(m-) Flexible lines of which bus m is the from -bus L(m ) Flexible lines of which bus m is the to -bus I(n) Substation at bus n T Hours in day Indices: i Substation i, an element of set I n Bus n, an element of set N k Non-flexible line k, an element of K l Flexible line l, an element of set L t Time t, an element of set T Parameters: Cit Cost price at substation i at time t Dnt Load at bus n at time t xk Reactance of non -flexible line k xl Reactance of flexible line l M A very big number Rating k Thermal limit of non -flexible line k Rating l Thermal limit of flexible lines l Variable s: Θnt Phase angle of bus n at time t Jl Status variable (binary) of flexible line l Pit Power at substation i at time t Pkt Power flow on non -flexible line k at time t Plt Power flow on flexible line l at time t I. INTRODUCTION HE distribution networks (DN) are radially structured with unidirectional power flows to r educ e operation and protection complexity and costs 1 . Network reconfiguration involves modifying the topology of a DN in order to enhance the performance of the distribution system. This is achieved by opening normally closed sectionalizing switches and closing normally open tie switches, while adhering to op erational constraints of the system. The primary goals of network reconfiguration are to supply power to loads at minimum cost, increas e system security and reliability, improv e power quality , reduce energy loss , and improve voltage profiles 2 - 4 . In traditional DN reconfiguration, the network is reconfigured once to minimize loss by transitioning from one topology to another. However, as the use of renewable energy resources and demand response programs increase , the behavior of end user profiles become s more dynamic. This introduces greater variability in load profiles and presents significant challenges for distri bution systems 5 - 7 . The main objective of distribution power systems is to deliver electricity to all load points within acceptable level s of quality at the lowest cost possible, which is a conflicting goal since improving the quality and quantity of energy delivered to customers leads to increased investment and operation costs. Therefore, grid planners and operators must strike a balance that considers increasing energy demand and least cost of electricity 8 . DNs are transitioning towards active network topologies with the increasing integration of distributed energy resources (DERs) especially renewable energy such as solar and wind. DERs when connected in the power system can reduce investment and operational cost, improve system reliability and efficiency, by local load balancing and reducing network losses . Another way to minimize the cost of electricity is reconfigu ration of distribut ion network topology (DNT) . The DN reconfiguration involves the modification of the DNT via Rida Fatima Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Houston Houston, TX, USA rfatima4 uh.edu Hassan Zahid Butt Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Houston Houston, TX, USA hbutt uh.edu Xingpeng Li Senior Member, IEEE Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Houston Houston, TX, USA xli82 uh.edu Optimal Dynamic Reconfiguration of Distribution Network s T 2 opening and closing of tie switches to sectionalize the network. This is done to minimize cost and power losses within the network 9 . The integration of i ntermittent renewable sources is facilitated by a flexible power system, especially when their penetration is high. This involves utilizing storage technologies and flexible demand. Additionally, due to the need for suitable location and land availability, storage technologies are usually installed in remote areas. Despite the introduction of large -scale storage technologies, high renewable energy penetration leads to curtailment caused by network congestion, resulting in an increased reliance on local foss il fuel -based generation. Thus, to effectively utilize renewable energy and avoid its wastage, it becomes necessary to implement an efficient smart grid and employ new technologies such as flexible AC transmission Systems (FACTS). To alleviate network cong estion and reduce curtailment, transmission expansion planning is done to enhance transfer capabilities 10 . Another approach is to redirect power flow on transmission lines, which can be achieved by adjusting line p arameters using FACTS devices 11 or n etwo rk reconfiguration techniques 12 - 14 . However, expansion planning, energy sources, and FACTS devices demand significant investments and maintenance costs, making reconfiguration an attractive option as it enables the utilization of renewable energy without
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	Computational Analysis of a Spiral Thermoelectric Nanoantenna for Solar Energy Harvesting Applications Edgar Briones 1, Joel Briones 2, Alexander Cuadrado 3, Stefan McMurtry 4, Michel Hehn 4, François Montaigne 4 , Javier Alda 3, Francisco Javier González 1 1 Coordinación para la Innovación y Aplicación de l a Ciencia y la Tecnología, Universidad Autónoma de San Luís Potosí, SLP, México, edgarbriones yahoo.com 2 Departamento de Fisica, Universidad de Santiago de Chile (USACH), 9170124 Santiago, Chile 3 Optics Complutense Group, University Complutense o f Madrid, Faculty of Optics and Optometry, Madrid. Spain 4 Institut Jean Lamour, CNRS, Université de Lorraine , Bd des Aiguillettes, BP70239, F(54506 Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France Abstract Thermo-electrical nanoantennas have been proposed as an alternative option for conversion so lar energy harvesting applications. In this work, the response of a spiral broadband antenna has been obtained from numerical and theoretical simulations perspectives. The results s how that this device exhibits a responsivity of 20mV W under 117W cm 2, for a single-frequency radiation. We discuss strategies f or enhanced efficiency. Index Terms nanoantennas, Seebeck effect, solar energy harvesting. I. INTRODUCTION Nano(antennas are resonant metallic structures that confine the optical energy into small volumes in an efficie nt way by inducing a high(frequency current in its structure 1(3 . Due to the high light(absorbing efficiencies reached by th ese structures, nano(antennas have gained considerable attention over the last years for the engineering of novel ph otovoltaic devices at visible and infrared wavelengths 4(8 . However, a successful implementation of these eleme nts for photovoltaic applications has not been achieved yet due to the lack of an efficient harvesting mechanism of th e optical energy. In this context, nanoantennas coupled to hi gh(speed rectifiers based on tunnel barriers, also known as rectennas , has been extensively explored during the last years as a way to convert the optical power into dc power 9(13 , non etheless, these devices exhibit low efficiencies due to the p oor performance of those rectifiers at optical frequenc ies 14 . In this work, thermoelectric Ti(Ni nanoantennas are proposed as an alternative strategy to recover the optical energy coupled to them. These devices are based on the very basic principle of a thermocouple operating by the Seebek effect, where a voltage drop is induced all along t he structure by locally increasing the temperature of the bi(met allic junction 15 . In must be pointed out that here, th e heating of the junction is optically induced when the optical radiation impinges the structure, causing a non(uniform Joule heating generated by the resonant current along the nanoant ennas 16, 17 . In this work, the responsivity and the optica l(to(electrical conversion efficiency of these types of devices is evaluated numerically by using COMSOL Multi(Physics. II. METHOD A sketch of the proposed antennas structure is show n in Fig. 1. We choose a broadband square spiral(antenna tuned to absorb at thermal(infrared wavelengths, designed us ing two symmetrical arms composed by seven elements of 200n m wide and 200nm thick, as defined in 3 . The arms of the spiral antenna were built of titanium and nickel, metallic materials that combine both a low thermal conductivity with considerably thermo(power properties 18 . The stru cture was placed on a semi(infinite SiO 2 substrate and a 10.6 µm wavelength plane(wave was used for far(field illumi nation (of arbitrary irradiance W 117W cm 2), whose polarization matched the circular polarization of the square spi ral nanoantenna. Fig. 1. Geometry of a two arms square spiral antenna tuned to absorb the thermal infrared wavelengths at 10.6 µm. a) b) The numerical analysis was performed by using a mul ti( physics approach where both the electromagnetic and thermal domains are fully integrated. The numerical model w as built using all the optical, thermal and thermo(electrica l properties of materials reported at 10.6 µm wavelength 18, 19 . As a first step the optically(induced heat along th e structure was evaluated by considering the computation as a f ull(optical problem, since heat is generated by Joule effect. F or this, the power density q(r) was evaluated inside the volume of the nanoantennas by 20 q(r)antenna (1 2) σ(ω) E(r) 2 (1) where σ(ω) is the conductivity of the material at t he frequency of the incident wave and E(r) the distribution of the electric field inside the nano(antennas when illumi nated. The power density was then used as a source of heat into the solver in order to perform numerical simulation s of the steady(state temperature distribution T inside and outside the resonant metallic structures. The temperature chang es are calculated by solving the heat transfer equation κ Τ(r) q(r) (2) by taking q(r) as q(r)antenna and 0, inside and outside the nanostructures, respectively. The effective tempera ture increase of the bi(metallic junction T was found a nd the voltage response of the antenna was evaluated by us ing the Seebeck effect relationship 17 VOC (STi(SNi ) Τ (3) where STi and SNi are the Seebeck coefficients for the nickel and titanium taken at bulk ( STi 7.2 µV K and SNi (15 µV K). Finally, the responsivity exhibited by the thermo(e lectric nano( antennas was evaluated by ℜ V VOC Pinc (4) where Pinc is the power contained by the incident wave. In spite that the thermal(optical analysis is perfo rmed by a classic treatment (neither thermal nor electric con tribution arising from interfaces are taken into account), th is method has shown to give accuracy results for thermal(optical analysis of nanoantennas coupled(bolometers 21, 22 . III. RESULTS The distribution temperature of the Ti(Ni square sp iral nano(antenna at the steady(state is shown in Fig. 2 (a) and (b). As expected, an important locally heating of the bi (metallic interface is achieved due to the strong built elect ric resonant current exhibited by the spiral nano(antennas at th e mid(point. The temperature asymmetry of arms arises from the d ifference in thermal conductivities of used metals what cause s one
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	PROPOSAL FOR EMPOWER ONE BILLION LIVES ASIA -PACIFIC REGIONAL ROUND 1 A Dynamic Energy Beacon: An Adaptive and Cost -effective Energy Harvesting and Power Management System for A Better Life Nan XU, Student Member, IEEE, Xiao QIU, Bo XU, Junyuan SHU, Ka Ho WAN Abstract In this proposal, a cost -effective energy harvesting and management system have been proposed. The regular power keeps around 200 Watt while the peak power can reach 300 Watt. The cost of this system satisfies the requirements and budget for residents in the rural area and live off -grid. It could be a potential solution to the global energy crisis, particularly the billions of people living in severe energy poverty. Also, it is an important renewable alternative to conventional fossil fuel electric ity generation not only the cost of manufacturing is low and high efficiency, but also it is safe and eco-friendly. Index Terms Energy Harvesting, Solar Panel, Power Man agement, Integrated Circuit Design, Power Inverter. I. INTRODUCTION OF THE DYNAMIC ENERGY BEACON FTER the 2nd Industrial Revolution, human being enters into The Electrical Era. The Electrical Generator, Stations, and Power Grid gradually emerge afterward. About one hundred years later, the invention of Integrated Circuit and World Wide Web bring us to a new stage of Information Age. The Intelligent hardware is connected via Cloud nowadays and make a Big Data World. People are enjoying the convenience of the above modern civilization. However, there are still some areas on earth that are falling behind. According to the related reports, there a re more than 3 billion people around the world are suffering from a shortage of energy, which 1 3 of them are living without power grids 1 . Their living quality, including health, education productivity and the connection with modern communities, are d rastically affected. The effective solutions, which combine innovative technology and reliable products, should be addressed to these urgent and severe issues 2 . This is Dynamic Energy Beacon, a group of students from HKUST and HFUT, proposed a hou sehold level energy harvesting, regulation, operation, and storage system, with the economic viability and environmental sustainability. It consists of the following components: The Front -end Solar Panels for Energy harvesting. The central Power Man agement Integrated Circuits attached to the cells for electricity regulation. The Lead storage batteries are equipped as the Energy storage and the backup supply during the night. The corresponding loading applications are DC: lighting equipment (LED), as well as other AC household or consumer electronics via Inverter(s). The system diagram is shown in Fig. 1. A. Front -end Solar Panel There are various types of photovoltaic materials to choose from as the solar cells. Most of them have high efficiency, while silicon solar cells are the most appropriate one with the longtime commercial application 2 3 . Fig. 1. System Overview of Dynamic Energy Beacon. Recently, high -performance multi -crystalline silicon (HP mc-Si) solar cells are reported with 21.9 efficiency, which has achieved what we need 4 5 . Under the standard spectrum (AM1.5G), 1 kW m2 is given to solar panels and approximate 1.3 m2 MC-Si made solar cells will provide 1000 Wh day or 200 W peak power in high energy use family. Another exhilarating news is that cost in the last few years have come down by a very good margin which becomes a big reason for the reduced cost of multi -crystalline solar panels. Multi -crystalline solar panels cost per 100 watts was about 40 USD now, which means that 72 panels with 300w outputting just cost as little as 120 USD 6 . In this condition, it is possible to purchase an integrated solar module under 1500 USD, which is the budget of the target audience 1 . Not only the low price but also the outstanding efficiency of the cloudy days compared with the single -crystalline solar panels, making it a large share in the market. Optical losses chiefly affect the power of a solar cell 7 . Anti-reflection coating, surface texturing and surface passiva tion layers are some regular technologies to reduce optical losses and promote efficiency 8 . A regular nano -cone PDMS array can be applied on the front, which provides the functions of water -repellent and self - cleaning to the device. The structure of the nano -cone PDMS antireflection array has a depth and opening width of 1 µm (aspect ratio of 1), which effectively affe cts the light - harvesting capacity of solar cell devices 9 . Moreover, a drop of water is on the film with a static contact angle of 152 and roll-off angle of 15 . If the dust or particles adhere to the panels, it will be flushed by rain easily just li ke the lotus leaves. This super -hydrophobicity adds the self -cleaning ability to the photovoltaic devices. The surface also has good mechanical properties, remaining more than 90 of the initial PROPOSAL FOR EMPOWER ONE BILLION LIVES ASIA -PACIFIC REGIONAL ROUND 2 value even after 200 mechanical bending cycles 10 . The corresponding figures are shown in the following Fig. 2. Fig. 2. (1)Photograph shows a drop of water on the surface of the nano cone PDMS array with static contact angles of 152 and roll -off angl e of 15 . (2)The cones with a depth and opening width of 1 µm (aspect ratio of 1), which can improve the light-harvesting capacity of solar cell devices. As for the production process, the low pressure and temperature thermal oxidation process could be an efficient way to increase the efficiency of the multi -crystalline silicon solar cells 10 . By deploying the above -advanced processing technologies, the solar module has a service life of more than ten years and it is work ing normally from -40 C to 85 C. More detailed parameters can be found in the Appendix. B. Power Management ICs for the Electricity Regulation According to the diverse characteristics of di fferent sunlight cases and loading conditions, a
__label__energy	An Electrical Grid with Discrete Energy Levels H. Grebel The Center for Energy Efficiency Resiliency Innovation (CEERI), NJIT, Newark, NJ 07102. grebel njit.edu Abstract: Minimizing both power fluctuations and energy waste in an electrical grid is a central challenge to energy policy. Any discrepancy between power production and loads may lead to inefficiencies and instability in the system. Right now, the electrical grid is an analog system that only retroact ively reacts to power dema nds. The balancing act becomes even harder with the penetration of sustainable resources (e.g., wind turbines) . Here, we consider the effect of random perturbations to the grid s steady states operation . A model is constructed and analyzed within the framework of a randomly perturbed Markovian chain. Instead of balancing continuous values for supply and demand, t he model assumes that both the generators and the users adhere to discrete pattern energy level s which is supplemented by local, short -term energy storage units (STESU) . Under reasonable assumptions , we show that this grid maintains stability (meaning , a constant difference between supply and demand) over long periods of time while subjected to randomly fluc tuating energy conditions . I. Introduction: To maintain stability in presently deployed grids, power supply and power demand need to be balanced at all times 1 . Fluctuating demand and the penetration of intermittent sustainable sources make it a challe nge to maintain grid stab ility, namely, the ability to maintain the power flow with no interruption, and power grid resiliency , namely, the ability to withstand disrupting events . Maintaining a constant level of generation and consumption power is hard to achieve in the present analog grid because the grid s response is reactive - the supply always follows the varying loads , and in principle, both may possess some degree of random ness . Approaches that use phase sensors 2 and predictive models have been implemented to make the grid controller aware of probable future instabilities 3 . These measure s have difficulty to addres s demand , or supply fluctuations in real time . Grid stability and resiliency could potentially be achieved through energy -on-deman d protocols , where energy requests are made ahead of delivery 4 . Such scenario s were simulated for a standard IEEE 39 bus for a limited channel capacity and se arching for an optimal energy path 5 . Similarly to information networks , this approach requires loads address and a high-speed communication system . . In this manuscript, one concentrates on the generation and demand fluctuations. It attempt s to build a grid that tolerates a certain amount of random fluctuations while main taining a long term stability ; another words , the grid attain s a balance between energy generation and demand even if the average energy in the system fluctuates . Instead of balancing continuous power levels at all times , the grid delivers discrete energy units within a given time-frame. In order to accommodate this approach we need short term energy storage as buffers (or back up sources). The advantage of such approach as apparent below is that the grid may be balance d despite energy fluctuations in the system . While right now the grid is, basically, regulated by the nodes impedance, a control system that translates the impedance changes into a discrete transition between discrete energy levels is needed . Fluctuations are mathematically described here by random transition probabilities between pre - determined energy levels. Thus, introducing randomness to the transition probabilities represent a degree of system instabilit y this degree of instability would be analyzed well in advance in figuring out the best energy pattern that suits the grid s needs. Overall, t he paper attempts to find out if a balance between generation and demand can be reached even if the grid is randomly perturbed. I. a. Approach Here, Energy terminology is used , rather than Power, beca use the power is assessed within some relatively long time-frame , longer than one second . The amount of deliverable energy adheres to pre-determined energy levels. An array of short -term energy storage units (STESU) helps maintain ing the pre-determined energy pattern. While the average energy in the system ( loads and generators) fluctuates , the energy storage units are charge d and discharge d in keeping with the pre -determined energy levels . The goal of the grid controller is to estimate the span of the energy random fluctuations ahead of time, and attempt to design an energy level system that mitigate s the fluctuations impa ct up to agreed -upon tolerance limits . Beyond these limits, the grid controller may use harsher methods, such as islanding. Mathem atically, r andom behavior may be introduced to the grid by randomly perturbed Markov chains as a system model 6-9 . Markov chains are typically used to adapt the transition probabilities between states according to desired outcomes . Yet, f or a demand sy stem that is random , the outcomes are , in principle unknown and the process of converging to a point of stability is unattainable . Instead of attempting to for ecast the temporal grid behavior , it is suggested here to estimate its tolerance to instabilit ies. Rather than maintaining a global balance between generation and dem and, which both have continuous values (the present analog approach), stability is maintained with pre -determined discrete energy values. The balancing act of supply and demand may be relieved by using fast energy storage at the customer node (and to some extent at the generator) to regulate energy generation and consumption. In such scenario, energy may be delivered in packets with constant energy U 0. As a result, the energy levels of a grid node (known as a bus) are, E0 0, E 1, E2 and so on , which are multiples of U 0. For example, the energy W i that is delivered to node i , might be made of two units:
__label__energy	Cost-effective Planning of Decarbonized Power-Gas Infrastructure to Meet the Challenges of Heating Electrification Rahman Khorramfar1,2 , Morgan Santoni-Colvin1 , Saurabh Amin2,3, Leslie K. Norford4, Audun Botterud2and Dharik Mallapragada1 1MIT Energy Initiative, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. 2Laboratory for Information Decision Systems, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. 3Civil and Environmental Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. 4Department of Architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. Contacts: khorram mit.edu; msantoni mit.edu; amins mit.edu; lnorford mit.edu; audunb mit.edu; Equal contributions with names in alphabetical order Abstract Building heat electrification is central to economy-wide decarboniza- tion efforts and directly affects energy infrastructure planning through increasing electricity demand and reducing the building sector s use of gas infrastructure that also serves the power sector. Here, we develop a modeling framework to quantify end-use demand for elec- tricity and gas in the buildings sector under various electrification pathways and evaluate their impact on co-optimized bulk power-gas infrastructure investments and operations under deep decarbonization scenarios. Applying the framework to study the U.S. New England region in 2050 across 20 weather scenarios, we find high electrification of the residential sector can increase sectoral peak and total elec- tricity demands by up to 56-158 and 41-59 respectively relative to business-as-usual projections. Employing demand-side measures like 1arXiv:2308.16814v3 eess.SY 15 Sep 2024 2 building envelope improvements under high electrification, however, can reduce the magnitude and weather sensitivity of peak load as well as induce overall efficiency gains, reducing the combined residential sec- tor energy demand for power and gas by 28-30 relative to the present day. Notably, a combination of high electrification and envelope improve- ments yields the lowest bulk power-gas system cost outcomes. Account- ing for midstream methane emissions from gas supply chain increase the reliance on low-carbon fuels, which indirectly improves the cost- effectiveness of end-use electrification. Similarly, we find that demand flexibility programs can reduce the total system cost by up to 6.3 . Keywords: Heating electrification, Joint power-gas planning, inter-annual weather variation, decarbonization 1 Introduction Economy-wide decarbonization by mid-century requires accelerated CO 2emis- sions reduction efforts across all sectors of the economy. Yet, to date, the building sector has seen limited progress in decarbonization efforts relative to other sectors. For example, in the U.S. between 2005 and 2021, power sector CO2emissions declined by 34 while the total emissions in the building sector declined by only 18 1 . Natural gas (NG) remains an important contributor to the sector s emissions. As of 2021, NG accounted for 80 of on-site fossil fuel consumption in the residential sector, or 5 of total U.S. GHG emissions, with heating being the dominant use case 2 . This share of emissions can be higher in cold climate regions with more NG heating; for example, in New England, residential NG usage accounted for 8 3 of economy-wide emis- sions in 2021. The electrification of space heating via efficient air-source heat pumps (ASHPs), combined with a low-carbon power sector, is one of the most widely recognized and viable pathways to considerably reduce buildings sec- tor emissions 4, 5 . Accordingly, federal and state policies increasingly aim to facilitate the deployment of heat pumps 6 8 . The electrification of space heating, however, introduces new challenges for long-term planning and operations of electricity and gas infrastructure under emissions constraints. First, electrification is anticipated to increase the mag- nitude and alter the pattern of electricity consumption by buildings while displacing NG consumption 9 11 . For example, prior studies of heat elec- trification suggest that cold climates like the U.S. Northeast will experience a 2.5-3.9 times increase in state-level peak electricity demands for the build- ing sector, with the peak occurring in the winter rather than the present summer-peaking conditions 12 . Importantly, the projected impacts of heat- ing electrification on final energy demand for electricity and NG are strongly dependent on the building stock as well as technology deployment assump- tions including the sizeof the heat pumps. For example, under a whole-home electrification approach, ASHPs are sized to serve heating needs throughout 3 the year, including during the coldest periods. In contrast, a hybrid electrifi- cation approach would use smaller ASHPs coupled with backup heating fuel, where the latter is used during especially cold periods to reduce peak elec- tricity consumption and requisite power infrastructure investment but may continue to need the gas infrastructure 12 . While these strategies have each been studied individually 10 13 , heterogeneous consumer behavior and pol- icy will result in the simultaneous adoption of multiple sizing strategies across the housing stock. Furthermore, the bulk of the literature has overlooked the role of building envelope improvements in reducing the demand impacts of either electrification strategy. A second challenge is that the altered electricity and gas consumption pat- terns due to heat electrification will also impact the utilization of bulk gas infrastructure by reducing its relevance for heating and potentially chang- ing its role for the grid 14, 15 . The economy-wide decarbonization studies overlook the impact of electrification on gas infrastructure and often rely on the coarse spatiotemporal representation of the power grid 16, 17 . To date, only a few studies have considered coordinated planning of regional power- gas infrastructure under high electrification and emissions constraints 14, 15 . Third, heating electrification uniquely increases the sensitivity of electricity demand to weather 18 20 , which, along with the weather-dependence of vari- able renewable energy (VRE) electricity supply, complicates decarbonized grid infrastructure planning 18, 21, 22 . For example, resource adequacy assess- ments of decarbonized grids with high levels of heat electrification need to consider the extent to which cold-weather peak events correlate with VRE production, which requires considering inter-annual weather variations. Several previous studies have used planning models to evaluate power sec- tor decarbonization pathways under scenarios of high heating electrification 9, 23 . However, these grid-centric studies overlook the resulting impacts of heating electrification on the gas infrastructure and the potential cost impacts from the reduced use of gas for heating.
__label__energy	Page 1 of 9 The Dublin Lens: A Cc 1.0 mm Objective Lens Intended for CryoEM at 100 keV Germano Motta Alves1,2, Theo Andrews1,2, Patrick McBean1, Torquil Wells3, Mohamed M. El - Gomati3, Stephan Burkhalter4, Clemens Schul ze-Briese4, Pietro Zambon4, Greg McMullan 5, Richard Henderson5, Chris topher J. Russo5, Lewys Jones 1,2 Affiliations 1. School of Physics Advanced Microscopy Laboratory (CRANN) , Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland 2. turboTEM Ltd, Dublin, Ireland 3. York Probe Sources Ltd., York YO26 6QU, United Kingdom 4. DECTRIS Ltd. Baden -Daettwil, Switzerland 5. MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge CB2 0QH, United Kingdom Corresponding authors: lewys.jones tcd.ie , gm2 mrc -lmb.cam.ac.uk Short title Cc 1.0 mm objective lens for cryoEM at 100 keV Key words chromatic aberration, electron microscopy , cryo -microscopy Abstract We have designed, fabricated and tested a lens with chromatic aberration coefficient ( Cc) of 1.0 mm, a 4.0 mm pole -gap and 2 .0 mm bore that is wide enough to accommodate a n anti -contamination system and an objective aperture. This lens extends the temporal -coherence envelope of the electron microscope beyond 2 Å, using a low -cost Schottky FEG . We hope that this lens design can be used to improve all 100 keV electron microscopes designed for single -particle electron cryomicroscopy (cryoEM) . Introduction The primary method for determining the structure of biological molecules has recently become single -particle cryoEM 1 . Previous work has shown that 100 keV electrons have the potential to improve structure determination by cryoEM since there is more information in the images at 100 keV per unit damage than at higher energies 2 , 3 . Recent work has demonstrat ed that structure determination by cryoEM at 100 keV is both possible and practical 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 . Furthermore , two hardware modifications were identified in 4 that can offer improvement in microscope performance with minimal increases in cost : 1. Modification of the objective lens to reduce the effects of chromatic aberration which increases the signal at high resolution . 2. Modification of the detector to increase the number of pixels such that the detective quantum efficiency at a particular resolution can be increased using magnification . In this work , we address the first of these. Given the growth of cryoEM and the ever increasing cost of high -end microscopes, there is still a desperate need for affordable microscopes capable of structure determination and walk -up assessment of specimens. Interestingly, improving the objective lens performance does not increase the complexity of the microscope and so has the potential to enable higher performance without increasing cost. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) objective lenses consist of a (typically) copper coil which produces the excitation, a yoke which guides the flux to complete the magnetic circuit, and a pole - Page 2 of 9 piece with a fixed bore and gap that dictate the shaping of the magnetic field in the focussing region. A simplified illustration of such a lens is shown in Figure 1. Figure 1 (a) Illustration of a transmission electron microscope objective -lens; showing the copper wire coils, outer magnetic circuit, and pole -piece with pole -gap. (b) Photograph of the Dublin lens installed in a JEOL 1400 HR at the MRC -LMB. The specimen rod is visible extending from the rear on the right. The objective aperture strip extends from the front on the right. Such TEM objective lenses are normally designed to minimise Cs 8 , 9 . Minimisation of Cs tends concurrently to minimise Cc as the two are coupled to the geometry of the pole piece 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 . Notable exceptions include lenses designed for aberration -corrected systems 14 , 15 , which are normally operated with room -temperature specimens . Cc values for previous lenses range from 0.6 mm to 4.0 mm 16 . Designs with Cc less than 2 mm are rare and inevitably are designed for room temperature or ultra -high-vacuum columns 14 . Microscopes designed for cryoEM have Cc in the range 2 -3 mm (e.g. Krios, CRYO -ARM, Polara) often to accommodate the wide gaps needed for a tight cryobox around the specimen while retaining the ability to tilt the grids as much as possible. Here, by elimina ting the requirement for tilting the specimen, optimising specifically for Cc only and maintaining as wide a gap as possible, we have a new set of design constraints that are specific for improving single particle cryoEM. Methods Approach Here we sought to design a lens suitable for accommodating a liquid nitrogen cooled anti - contaminator system and standard cryo-specimen holders without touching the pole -piece which is kept at room temperature. Design To evaluate the performance of many lens geometries in parallel, a genetic algorithm (GA) tailored specifically for bespoke pole -piece design was written 17 . The GA is a metaheuristic that relies on the theory of natural selection, wherein the members of a population with the most favourable traits Page 3 of 9 are the most likely to survive and reproduce. The algorithm emulates this by preserving the best - performing geometries, creating mutants and crossovers of middling geometries, and discarding the worst candidates 18 . Performance was evaluated with a fitness function, specified by the user in accordance with the desired lens properties. Such a GA approach has previously been successfully implemented in magnetic and electrostatic lens design for objectives , electron guns and even MRI machines 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 . Beginning with a Python -defined vector ised description of a stylised pole-piece geometry, various randomised mutations of the geometry were performed to create a population of candidates. Each candidate was used as the input for a magnetic flux simulation using COMSOL Multiphysics . The resulting magnetic flux profile along the optic axis was used as the input to a Julia script to determine values of the chromatic aberration coefficient (
__label__energy	1 Virtual Energy Storage Sharing and Capacity Allocation Dongwei Zhao, Student Member, IEEE, Hao Wang, Member, IEEE, Jianwei Huang, Fellow, IEEE, and Xiaojun Lin, Fellow, IEEE Abstract Energy storage can play an important role in energy management of end users. To promote an efﬁcient utilization of energy storage, we develop a novel business model to enable virtual storage sharing among a group of users. Speciﬁcally, a storage aggregator invests and operates the central physical storage unit, by virtualizing it into separable virtual capacities and selling to users. Each user purchases the virtual capacity, and utilize it to reduce the energy cost. We formulate the interaction between the aggregator and users as a two-stage optimization problem. In Stage 1, over the investment horizon, the aggregator determines the investment and pricing decisions. In Stage 2, in each operational horizon, each user decides the virtual capacity to purchase together with the operation of the virtual storage. We characterize a stepwise form of the optimal solution of Stage-2 Problem and a piecewise linear structure of the optimal proﬁt of Stage-1 Problem, both with respect to the virtual capacity price. Based on the solution structure, we design an algorithm to attain the optimal solution of the two-stage problem. In our simulation results, the proposed storage virtualization model can reduce the physical energy storage investment of the aggregator by 54.3 and reduce the users total costs by 34.7 , compared to the case where users acquire their own physical storage. Index Terms Energy storage, storage virtualization, business model, two-stage optimization I. I NTRODUCTION A. Background and motivation Energy storage is becoming a crucial element to ensure the stable and efﬁcient operation of the new-generation of power systems. The beneﬁts of the energy storage at the grid side have been well-recognized (e.g., for generation backup, transmission support, voltage control, and frequency regulation) 2 . Recently, there has also been an increasing interest in leveraging energy storage for end users (e.g., by harvesting distributed generations, and cutting electrical bill) 2 . However, deploying energy storage at the end-user side also faces challenges. On one hand, the current commercial storage products for end users often have high price tags.1 Further, since a storage product lasts for years, it is challenging This work is supported by the Presidential Fund from the Chinese Uni- versity of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China, and in part by the NSF awards: ECCS-1509536. Part of the results have appeared in IEEE ICC 2017 1 Dongwei Zhao is with the Department of Information Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China (e-mail: zd015 ie.cuhk.edu.hk). Hao Wang is with the Department of Civil and En- vironmental Engineering and the Stanford Sustainable Systems Lab, Stanford University, CA 94305 USA (e-mail: hwang16 uw.edu). Jianwei Huang is with the School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China and the Department of Information Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China (e-mail: jian- weihuang cuhk.edu.cn). Xiaojun Lin is with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA (e-mail: linx ecn.purdue.edu). 1A Tesla Powerwall storage with a capacity of 13.5 kWh costs 6200 3 .for a user to decide the storage size due to the uncertainty of future energy demand. In fact, the Tesla Powerwall only provides one or two choices of storage size for users. Both of these factors can discourage users from purchasing such storage products and enjoying the beneﬁts. On the other hand, if many users invest in energy storage, it is possible for them to cooperate and share the beneﬁts of storage due to complementary charge and discharge needs. The above considerations motivate us to study the following problem in the paper: what would be a good business model that promotes users more efﬁcient use of energy storage? In our work, we develop a novel business model to virtualize and allocate central energy storage resources to end users through a pricing mechanism. This is analogous to the practice of cloud service providers, who set prices for virtualized computing resources shared by end users 4 . In the power system, we can also envision that a storage aggregator invests in a central physical storage unit and then virtualizes it into separable virtual storage capacities that are sold to end users at a suitable price. Users purchase the virtual storage to reduce the energy cost. One key advantage of our storage virtualization framework is the ability to leverage users complementary charge and discharge proﬁles. Note that the aggregator only cares about the net power ﬂowing in and out the storage. As some users may choose to charge while others choose to discharge in the same time slot, some requests will cancel out at the aggregated level. This suggests that even if all the users are fully utilizing their virtual storage capacity, it is possible to support users needs by using a smaller central storage comparing with the total virtual storage capacities sold to users. Such comple- mentary charge and discharge proﬁles can arise in practice due to the diverse load and renewable generation proﬁles of end users. Speciﬁcally, as the most promising sources of clean and sustainable energy, solar and wind energy have both been increasingly adopted by households, commercial buildings, and residential communities 5 6 . Studies in 7 9 showed that solar and wind energy exhibit diverse and locational-dependent generation proﬁles. Similarly, end users load proﬁles can also be signiﬁcantly diverse even in a localized region 10 .2 Another key advantage of storage virtualization is that a user can ﬂexibly change the amount of virtual capacity to purchase over time based on his varying demand. Such ﬂexibility is difﬁcult to realize if the user owns physical storage by himself, 2We show the diversity of users load proﬁles in the online Appendix O of the technical report 11 based on the data from 10 .arXiv:1907.02005v5 eess.SY 15 Dec 2021 2 and encourages the users to take advantage of the energy storage. The above key advantages
__label__energy	Algorithms for Mitigating the Effect of Uncertain Geomagnetic Disturbances in Electric Grids Minseok Ryu , Harsha Nagarajany, Russell Benty Department of Industrial Operations Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, yTheoretical Division (T-5), Los Alamos National Laboratory, NM, U.S.A. (Contact: harsha lanl.gov) Abstract Geomagnetic disturbances (GMDs), a result of space weather, pose a severe risk to electric grids. When GMDs occur, they can cause geomagnetically-induced currents (GICs), which saturate transformers, induce hot-spot heating, and increase reactive power losses in the transmission grid. Furthermore, uncertainty in the magnitude and orientation of the geo-electric ﬁeld, and insufﬁcient historical data make the problem of mitigating the effects of uncertain GMDs challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel distributionally robust optimization (DRO) approach that models uncertain GMDs and mitigates the effects of GICs on electric grids. This is achieved via a set of mitigation actions (e.g., line switching, locating blocking devices, generator re-dispatch and load shedding), prior to the GMD event, such that the worst-case expectation of the system cost is minimized. To this end, we develop a column-and-constraint generation algorithm that solves a sequence of mixed-integer second-order conic programs to handle the underlying convex support set of the uncertain GMDs. Also, we present a monolithic exact reformulation of our DRO model when the underlying support set can be approximated by a polytope with three extreme points. Numerical experiments on epri-21 system show the efﬁcacy of the proposed algorithms and the exact reformulation of our DRO model. Index Terms Algorithms, Distributionally robust optimiza- tion, Geomagnetic disturbances, Line switching. I. I NTRODUCTION Geomagnetic disturbances (GMDs) are caused by solar storms. During these storms charged particles escape from the sun, travel to the earth, create a geomagnetically-induced cur- rent (GIC), and impact electric transmission grids. Detrimental impacts include current distortions (harmonics), saturation of transformers, induced hot-spot heating, and increased reactive power losses 1 , 2 , 3 (see Figure 1). In 1989, the Hydro- Quebec power system was shut down for 9 hours due to a rare, but high-impact GMD, which led to a net loss of 13.2 million 4 . Step-up transformer Step-down transformer Residential Industrial commercial Induced geoelectric eld Fig. 1: Effect of GMDs on the electric grid. (Source: 1 )To mitigate the harmful effects of GMDs, one can install Direct Current (DC) blocking devices at regional substations to prevent the GICs, which is quasi-DC, from entering the power network through transformer neutrals 5 . This has led to work like 6 which posed the GIC blocking device placement prob- lem that minimizes the costs of selecting appropriate locations to install these devices. Recently, numerous researchers have suggested that the risk of GICs could be reduced by the use of existing controls such as generator re-dispatch, line switching and load shedding. In 7 , for the ﬁrst time, the authors proposed an optimal transmission line switching (OTS) model under GMDs based on Alternating Current (AC) power ﬂow equations and a set of constraints that captures GIC effects on various types of transformers. Utilizing state-of-the-art convex relaxations, the model was formulated as a mixed-integer quadratic convex program, which could be solved using com- mercial optimization solvers, albeit on small-scale instances. Recently, 8 presented heuristic-based algorithms to mitigate the effect of GICs on transformers by using line switching strategies on large-scale grids. Given that GMD events are hard to predict in advance and that the probability distribution of the uncertain magnitude and orientation of GMDs is not known precisely due to the insufﬁcient historical data, 9 proposed a two-stage distributionally robust optimization (DRO) model with a mean-support ambiguity set and applied the standard column-and-constraint generation (CCG) algorithm 10 to solve on a small-scale instance, with prohibitively slow run times. In this paper, we formulate a modiﬁed and an improved ver- sion of the two-stage DRO formulation presented in 9 . While 9 is focused on making the mitigation actions (line switching and generator dispatch) that hedges against the worst-case ex- pected load shedding costs calculated based on the power ﬂow equations at the second-stage, this paper focuses on making not only the mitigation actions but also their corresponding power ﬂow operations at the ﬁrst stage so as to minimize the worst-case expected damage costs due to GICs. This proposed decomposition also better represents the operation of electric grids from a practical perspective. Speciﬁcally, the ﬁrst-stage problem models the AC Optimal Transmission Switching (AC- OTS) which determines active transmission lines and the set- points for generators which minimize the worst-case expected costs occurred by GMDs, i.e., taking expectation over the worst-case probability distribution among all the distributions in the ambiguity set. Given the solutions of the ﬁrst-stage, thearXiv:2006.02461v1 math.OC 3 Jun 2020 18 17 16 15 3 2 4 S2 18d 17d 2d 3d S1 4d 15d 16d S3 30 12 28 14 1 18 8 37 14 12 33 32 8 16 17 1 AC Power Network DC Power Network 33 Gwye-Gwye GWye-GWye Auto GWye-Delta GSUFig. 2: An example of AC to DC network mapping second-stage problem consists of linear constraints that capture the GIC effects. We assume the mean-support ambiguity set is provided and is uniform throughout the grid. The support set of the uncertain parameters is convex and can be approximated by a polytope with Nextreme points. With these assumptions, the contributions of this paper are: (a) We ﬁrst reformulate the two-stage DRO model as a min-max-min problem that can be solved by a CCG algorithm. 9 solves sub-problems which contain bilinear terms in the objective function, leading to weaker relaxations. To circumvent this issue, we solve a set of linear programs, each of which corresponds to an extreme point of the support set and enhances computation tractability. (b) For the special case of the support set with three extreme points ( N 3), we prove that the two-stage DRO model can be equivalently reformulated as a two-stage stochastic program with three scenarios. We further propose to construct a monolithic reformulation which can be solved efﬁciently using commercial solvers, and (c) We present a
__label__energy	On Mitigating the Uncertainty in Renewable Generation in Distribution Microgrids Arnab Dey1, Vivek Khatana1, Ankur Mani2and Murti V . Salapaka1 Abstract In this article, we focus on the problem of mitigating the risk of not being able to meet the power demand, due to the inherent uncertainty of renewable energy generation sources in microgrids. We consider three different demand scenarios, namely meeting short-time horizon power demand, a sustained energy demand and a scenario where the power demand at a prescribed future time has to be met with almost sure guarantee with power generation being stochastic and following dynamics governed by geometric Brownian motion. For each of these scenarios we provide solutions to meet the electrical demand. We present results of numerical experiments to demonstrate the applicability of our schemes. Index terms: Microgrids, optimization, partial differential equations, photovoltaic, renewable energy sources, uncertainty minimization, wind energy. I. INTRODUCTION In recent times, there is a mounting interest towards the generation and utilization of clean renewable energies owing to the adverse environmental effects and fast depletion of traditional energy sources 1 , 2 . The advent of microgrids has provided a ﬂexible framework for the interconnection of renewable energy sources (RES) like solar photo-voltaic (PV) systems and wind energy systems 3 . However, the in- tegration of renewable energy sources introduces uncertainty of meeting the electricity demand. In particular, due to the uncertain and intermittent nature of the renewable energy sources, maintaining the balance between power supply and demand can become challenging if extra measures such as ancillary services are not present 4 , 5 . Moreover, climate related catastrophic events are increasing in frequency and magnitude 6 , 7 ; here, microgrid operation of critical in- frastructures such as hospitals, powered partly by renewable energy sources provides an attractive solution. However, for such critical infrastructures, it is important to guarantee needed power and thus managing uncertainty of renewable energy sources needs to be addressed. Due to the stochastic nature of the solar radiation and wind, probabilistic approaches are used to model the renew- able power output 8 11 . Several tasks, such as electri- ﬁcation of remote areas and recovery from natural disas- ters, require hybrid renewable energy systems (HRES) to be operated in an islanded mode, where either the grid This work is supported by Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy OPEN through the project titled Rapidly Viable Sustained Grid via grant no. DE-AR0001016. 1Arnab Dey dey00011 umn.edu , Vivek Khatana khata010 umn.edu , Murti V . Salapaka murtis umn.edu are with Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, USA, and2Ankur Mani amani umn.edu is with Department of Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, USA,has become unreliable or is not available. Here, optimal allocation of renewable sources and ancillary battery energy storage systems (BESS) is desired 12 14 . Many re- searchers have proposed optimization techniques focusing on overall investment and operational cost reduction 15 19 . However, as the BESS and RES become economically viable, primarily due to technological improvements and energy policy enforcement, a focus on reliability of meeting power demand along with traditional focus on cost optimization is needed. To this end, in this article we focus on microgrids sourced by renewables. The renewable energy generation unit (ReGU), possibly consisting of solar and wind, has a variable power output which results in uncertainty in the total power that can be supplied to the loads. Here, we address the problem of meeting the electricity demand of the loads using ReGUs, where batteries are used to mitigate the uncertainty inherent in ReGUs. To capture different scenarios of electricity demand we consider three different situations, (i) power demand scenario where the instantaneous power demand of the loads is to be met over a short-time horizon where optimality is sought with respect to statistical mea- sures, (ii) an energy demand problem where a certain amount of energy demanded has to be provided with guarantees of optimality, (iii) a scenario where the uncertain ReGUs are required to supply the power to the loads at a future time- instantTfwith an almost sure guarantee, using batteries allocated optimally. For each of these three problems we provide solutions for ReGUs that minimize the risk of not being able to meet the electricity demand of the loads due to their power output variability. Numerical simulations to illustrate the applicability of our schemes corroborate the analytical algorithmic claims. The major contribution of this paper is threefold: (i) We propose a stochastic optimization model to meet short- time power demand with minimum variation in renewable generation, addressing inherent uncertainties of various re- newable energy sources. (ii) In contrast to many existing optimization techniques which primarily focus on investment cost optimization of hybrid renewable energy systems to decide installed capacity before commencement of the renewable project, we provide a solution to the problem of meeting power demand in real-time with almost sure guarantee given the stochastic nature of the renewable energy sources. Such a guarantee is essential for applications which are critical. We also provide a policy of how to optimally utilize the renewable generation and the battery storage such that the demand is met without overproduction or underproduction as well. WearXiv:2007.08641v1 eess.SY 16 Jul 2020 remark that such a solution is pertinent for supporting critical infrastructure and to the best of the authors knowledge is missing from existing state of the art. (iii) We present a strategy to ﬁnd minimum required battery reserve to meet the constant power demand throughout a time interval which minimizes the expected energy mismatch between combined generation from stochastic renewable sources and battery and demand throughout the time interval. Unlike the contributions (i) and (ii), (iii) provides meeting an energy demand instead of a power demand. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: We provide the problem formulation for the three electricity demand sce- narios in Section II. Then, we present the proposed schemes in Section III along with their analysis and discussion on implementation. We
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Multilayered plasmonic nanostructures for solar energy harvesting Anh D. Phan,1, 2Nam B. Le,3Nghiem T. H. Lien,2and Katsunori Wakabayashi4 1Department of Physics, University of Illinois, 1110 West Green St, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA 2Institute of Physics, Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology, 10 Dao Tan, Ba Dinh, Hanoi 10000, Vietnam 3School of Engineering Physics, Hanoi University of Science and Technology, 1 Dai Co Viet, Hanoi, Vietnamy 4Department of Nanotechnology for Sustainable Energy, School of Science and Technology, Kwansei Gakuin University, Sanda, Hyogo 669-1337, Japan (Dated: March 11, 2022) Optical properties of core-shell-shell Au SiO 2 Au nanostructures and their solar energy harvest- ing applications are theoretically investigated using Mie theory and heat transfer equations. The theoretical analysis associated with size-dependent modi cation of the bulk gold dielectric function agrees well with previous experimental results. We use the appropriate absorption cross section to determine the solar energy absorption e ciency of the nano-heterostructures, which is strongly structure-dependent, and to predict the time-dependent temperature increase of the nanoshell so- lution under simulated solar irradiation. Comparisons to prior temperature measurements and theoretical evaluation of the solar power conversion e ciency are discussed to provide new insights into underlying mechanisms. Our approach would accelerate materials and structure testing in solar energy harvesting. I. INTRODUCTION Multilayer metal-based nanoshells have been the sub- ject of much recent research interest because of signi - cant near- eld enhancement and peculiar properties com- pared with those of single-component counterparts 1 7 . A composite material not only possesses original charac- teristics of its individual components, but also new ex- traordinary attributes caused by coupling between them. Strong light-matter interactions originate from excita- tions of the collective oscillations of conduction electrons at metallic surfaces, so-called surface plasmon resonances 1, 3, 4 . Optical features of metal nanoshells remarkably depend on their size, shape, and ambient medium 1 . The extraordinary light manipulation abilities of plas- monic heterostructures have been exploited for a wide range of applications such as spectroscopy 8, 9 , medical treatment 7, 10 , high-e ciency photovoltaics 11 and solar cells 12 14 . Among these applications, improv- ing solar cell e ciency is an essential path to deal with the energy crisis when supplies of conventional energy resources are exhausted. Recently, hybrid nanocomposites composed of gold and silica have been intensively investigated for light-to-heat conversion 12, 14 16 . While gold nanoparticles have fascinating properties derived from their localized surface plasmon resonances 1 , the use of silica prevents electron transfer between materials, protects interior metal from corrosion, and red-shifts plasmon peaks. Additionally, inserting a dielectric layer between two gold layers of the nanostructures creates an additional resonance, enhances absorption intensity, and broadens the absorption band 2, 7, 8, 17 . Properly synthesizing the size of nanostruc- adphan35 gmail.com ynble mail.usf.edutures can optimize solar energy harvesting and e ectively release heat. In this work, we propose a theoretical approach to pre- dict time-dependent temperature rise of gold-silica-gold multilayer nanoshells (as depicted in Fig.1) dispersed in water under the illumination of simulated solar light at 80 mW cm2. We carefully analyze structurally dependent e ects of gold nanomatryoshkas on extinction spectra by comparing experiments with Mie scattering calculations. The corresponding absorption cross sections of the hy- brid nanostructures are used to estimate the heat source density and the solar energy absorption e ciency by us- ing a proposed gure of merit 18 . Then thermal elds generated by the heat source are analytically formulated. Our approach could quantitatively predict future exper- iments. Au AuSiO2ε1 ε2 ε3 ε4r1r2r3 water FIG. 1. (Color online) Schematic illustration of gold nanoma- tryoshkas.arXiv:1808.03755v1 physics.app-ph 11 Aug 2018 2 II. THEORETICAL BACKGROUND A. Mie scattering theory Mie theory has been used widely and successfully to calculate the absorption, scattering, and extinction spec- tra of multilayered nanocomposites embedded in a ho- mogeneous and isotropic medium 1, 10, 19 . The ap- proach shows a good agreement with experimental re- sults. Accurate quantitative predictions of absorption cross sections can be used to investigate spatial and tem- poral temperature variations when a material is illumi- nated by laser 10, 20 and solar radiation. Analyticalexpressions of theoretical optical cross-sections predicted by Mie scattering calculations are 1 Qext 2 k2 41X n 1(2n 1)Re(an bn); Qscat 2 k2 41X n 1(2n 1) janj2 jbnj2 ; Qabs Qext Qscat; (1) where an n(x3) 0 n(m3x3) S2 n 0 n(m3x3) m3 0 n(x3) n(m3x3) S2 n n(m3x3) n(x3) 0n(m3x3) S2n 0n(m3x3) m3 0n(x3) n(m3x3) S2n n(m3x3) ; (2) bn m3 n(x3) 0 n(m3x3) T2 n 0 n(m3x3) 0 n(x3) n(m3x3) T2 n n(m3x3) m3 n(x3) 0n(m3x3) T2n 0n(m3x3) 0n(x3) n(m3x3) T2n n(m3x3) ; (3) Ss n n(xs) 0 n(msxs) Ss 1 n 0 n(msxs) ms 0 n(xs) n(msxs) Ss 1 n n(msxs) n(xs) 0n(msxs) Ss 1n 0n(msxs) ms 0n(xs) n(msxs) Ss 1n n(msxs) ; (4) Ts n ms n(xs) 0 n(msxs) Ts 1 n 0 n(msxs) 0 n(xs) n(msxs) Ts 1 n n(msxs) ms n(xs) 0n(msxs) Ts 1n 0n(msxs) 0n(xs) n(msxs) Ts 1n n(msxs) ; (5) whereS0 n T0 n 0,xs ks 1rs,ms p s s 1, sis the dielectric function in the s-th layer,ks 2 p s is the wavenumber, is the wavelength of incident light in vacuum,rsis a distance from a center of the multilay- ered nanostructures to the s-th interface, ( x) xjn(x), n(x) xyn(x), and n(x) xh(1) n(x) are Riccati-Bessel, Riccati-Neumann and Riccati-Hankel functions, respec- tively. The s 1;2;and 3 indicates media in the gold nanomatryoshkas. jn(x) is the spherical Bessel function of the rst kind, yn(x) is the spherical Neumann func- tion, andh(1) n(x) is the spherical Hankel function of the rst kind. The Mie scattering coe cients anandbn correspond to transverse magnetic (TM) and transverse electric (TE) modes, respectively. In our calculations, the dielectric function of silica 2is approximately 2.04, the dielectric permittivity of ambient medium 4 1:77, while the dielectric function of gold ( 1(!) 3(!)) is described by the Lorentz-Drude model with several os- cillators 10, 20 22 1;3(!) 1 f!2 p
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Emission Reduction in Urban Environments by Replacing Conventional City Buses with Electric Bus Technology : A Case Study of Pakistan Muhammad Haris Saleem1 , S. Wajahat Ali1, Sheikh Abdullah Shehzad Lahore University of Management Sciences, DHA phase 5 sector U, Lahore, Punjab, 54792, Pakistan Corresponding author ( 21100088 lums.edu.pk ) Highlights: Possibility of transition to Electric Buses given support from government entities. Major challenges were establishing infrastructure and national -level policy for Electric Vehicles. To catch the public interest , authorities must play a large role in incentivizing E.V. in comparison to incentivizing Diesel. Regulation s for Advance d charging infrastructure are to be prioritized. Abstract : The global transportation industry has become one of the main contributors to air pollution. Consequently, electric buses and green transportation are gaining popularity as crucial steps to reduce emission concerns. Many developed countries have already ad opted the concept of Battery Electric Buses (BEBs), while the developing ones are just starting with it. However, BEB fleets have advantages, such as lower fuel, higher efficiency, lower maintenance, and energy security. Yet, several obstacles must be over come to support the mass deployment of BEBs. These incorporate forthright expense charges, arranging loads, BEB reach, and newness to BEB innovation. Stakeholders like policymakers, private company owners, and government leaders have a lot to consider before introducing BEBs at any level in Pakistan. As a result, to operate an electric bus system profitably, it is crucial to develop a proper electric bus network and fleet, especially for bus operators who need to buy enough electric buses at the appropriate time. As a result, this paper aims to investigate if operating an electric bus could be an alternative to regular bus operations. T he proposed methodology develops modeling software to cater to various scenarios to determine a proper -designed electric bus operating system in terms of the electric bus route, service frequency, and quantity . This research work simulates and financially analyses an operating Public Transport Infrastructure with a proposed Green Solution. The results show that regardless of th e high upfront costs o f BEB infrastructure, it becomes profitable in 6-7 years , resulting in a decreased Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) of approximately 30 of its counterpart. The study also provides a clear policy pathway to help stakeholders make informed decisions related to the electrification of public transport in Pakistan. Keywords: Carbon Emissions, Environment, Electric Buses, Li -ion Batteries, Climate Change, Public Transport 1. Introduction Globally, it was discovered that road transport emissions seriously jeopardi ze the quality of the air in inner cities a nd contribute to global warming (due to the emission of Carbon dioxide, CO 2). Traffic congestion, air pollution, and noise pollution are three externalities associated with transportation operations that call for the attention of the appropriate authorities (including transport policymakers, operators, the public, etc.). These ex ternalities must be appropriately addressed to ensure the sustainable expansion of transportation, g iven that the transportation industry accounts for more than 25 of global energy consumption 1 . Carbon dioxide (CO 2), Methane (CH 4), and Nitrous Oxide (N2O) are precise ly the main contributors to Green House Gas (GHG) emissions from the transportation industry (N2O). Adopting electric buses as a practical mode of public transportation proves to be a successful endeavor to launch green mobility to protect the environment. The environmentally friendly and designed electric bus is an emerging technology to lower carbon emission levels. One of the most promising solutions, the use of electric vehicles, maybe a viable way to alleviate the environmental issue. Figure 1 shows the CO2 Emission trend in Pakistan. Figure 1: CO2 (M.T.) Emissions in Pakistan 5 Pakistan contributes 0.9 2 of the total global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, most of which come from the country s transport sector. In 2018, this sector alone contributed 51.3 MT of CO2 eq. and 20 - 25 on average to the cumulative emissions 2 . Pakistan, being an agricultural country, is facing a climate emergency. It is the 5th most climatically affected country worldwide. Having faced approximately 150 weather incidents resulting from climate change, it was ranked 19th out of 181 on the scale to mea sure fatality rate. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and World Bank ( W.B. ) have published a report on the Climate Risk Country Profile, which estimates that an increase of up to 2.5 degrees Celsius in temperature over the next two decades will lead to an annual loss of up to 3.8 billion. The publication reports a 44 increas e over five years (2013 -2018). In 2019 alone, 28 of the 199 MT CO2 emissions from fuel combustion resulted from the transport sector. The country loses 8.84 of its gross domestic pr oduct (GDP) annually due to environment -caused diseases 4 . Table 1 below shows different climatic disasters Pakistan has faced over the years and how they have affected the economy and people s lives . Table 1. Climatic disasters faced by Pakistan. Disaster Type Events Count Deaths Total _Affected (Million) Damage (Million ) Drought 1 143 2.2 247 Extreme Temperature 15 2759 0.08 18 Floods 75 11104 64.3 19911.3 Storm 18 1424 2.2 1710.9 The world is moving towards greener resources for almost everything, transportation or energy. Reducing the carbon footprint is the focus of the world. Transportation is the primary source of emission, including two heads of emission. Emission s from fuel in case of fuel transport, and emissions from the energy mix on which our electric vehicles will operate. Table 2 below shows greenhouse emissions in the transport sector and its forecast based on previous trend s. Table 2. Projected Green House Gas Emissions in the Transport Sector (MT CO2e) 21 Emission Source Category 2012 2015 2020 2025 2030 Road Passenger Vehicles 21.1 23.5 29.1 36.1 45.2 Road Freight Vehicles 12.6 14.5 18.9 24.2 30.6 Aviation 1.5 1.7 2.4 3.2 4.3 Rail 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.7 Pakistan, among other countries, has published a National Electric Vehicle Policy (NEVP) to shift
__label__energy	A zero-carbon, reliable and affordable energy future in Australia Bin Lu , Andrew Blakers, Matthew Stocks, Cheng Cheng and Anna Nadolny Australian National University Correspondence: bin.lu anu.edu.au Abstract Australia has one of the highest per capita consumption of energy and emissions of greenhouse gases in the world. It is also the global leader in rapid per capita annual deployment of new solar and wind energy, which is causing the country s emissions to decline. Australia is located at low-moderate latitudes along with three quarters of the global population. These factors make the Australian experience globally significant. In this study, we model a fully decarbonised electricity system together with complete electrification of heating, transport and industry in Australia leading to an 80 reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. An energy supply-demand balance is simulated based on long-term (10 years), high-resolution (half-hourly) meteorological and energy demand data. A significant feature of this model is that short-term off-river energy storage and distributed energy storage are utilised to support the large-scale integration of variable solar and wind energy. The results show that high levels of energy reliability and affordability can be effectively achieved through a synergy of flexible energy sources; interconnection of electricity grids over large areas; response from demand-side participation; and mass energy storage. This strategy represents a rapid and generic pathway towards zero-carbon energy futures within the Sunbelt. Keywords: solar photovoltaics; wind energy; energy security; energy storage; Super Grid; Smart Grid 1. Introduction Solar photovoltaics and wind turbines comprised about 64 of global annual net new capacity additions in 2019 1 , and nearly 100 in Australia. Rapid deployment of solar and wind energy presents the most promising prospect for tackling climate change through the adoption of renewable energy in the electricity sector, along with electrification of heating, transportation and industry to displace fossil fuels. However, solar and wind energy are weather-based and hence are variable and uncertain in nature. Consequently, there are a range of technical challenges associated with the large-scale integration of variable renewable energy such as higher ramp rates, lower minimum generation levels, more frequent cycling and capacity inadequacy. Energy storage is key to a reliable and affordable renewable energy future. Jacobson et al. 2, 3 modelled thermal energy storage to support 100 wind, water and sunlight in the United States and the world s energy systems. Phase-change materials were included to store high-temperature heat from concentrated solar power, which was then used to drive steam turbines to generate electricity when needed. Hot water, chilled water, ice and underground rocks were used to store low-temperature heat from solar thermal collectors and electricity to meet heating and cooling demand for those times when energy supply and demand were not balanced. Demand response was also modelled where 15 of residential and commercial, 85 of transport and 70 of industrial loads were assumed to be flexible providing up to 8 hours of load shifting. Connolly et al. 4 and Lund et al. 5 investigated large-scale integration of solar and wind energy in Europe using a Smart Energy System solution. The electricity, heating, cooling and transport sectors were coupled through power-to-gas, where solar and wind energy were used to produce methane, methanol and dimethyl ether mainly for transport fuels, but also for electricity and heat generation. In this way, variable renewable energy can be stored in the form of electrofuels in gas and oil storage facilities, which are largely available today at low cost. Additionally, instead of being burned directly, biomass was utilised as a carbon source to produce bio-electrofuels using gasification and hydrogenation processes. Ram et al. 6 and Bogdanov et al. 7 modelled the energy transition required to decarbonise global power, heat, transport and desalination. Lithium-ion batteries were used for short-term energy storage i.e. energy day-night shifting. Power-to-gas and compressed air energy storage were utilised for medium-term to long-term energy storage to cope with seasonal variations of renewable energy resources. About 5 of electricity demand and more than 10 of heat demand were powered by synthetic natural gas through power-to-gas. Further, about 15 of heat demand was met by thermal energy storage, including industrial heat (medium- to high-temperature) and space and water heating (low-temperature). In this study, by contrast, we address the variability and uncertainty of renewable energy in a different way, using short-term off-river energy storage (STORES) and distributed energy storage (DES). STORES refers to closed-loop pumped hydro systems with large hydraulic head, which can be located away from rivers and hence offers vast opportunities to access cost-effective mass energy storage. A first-of-its-kind high-resolution global atlas of off-river pumped hydro included in Blakers et al. 8 demonstrated 616,000 cost-effective sites for pumped hydro development around the world with a total storage potential of 23 million GWh. DES, such as electric car batteries, can contribute significant storage capacity as well as large demand flexibility to future energy systems. Enabled by smart grid technology, these kW, kWh-scale storage systems can be aggregated and utilised for GW, GWh-scale energy storage. In light of their high round-trip efficiencies (STORES 80 , DES 90 ) and the large resource potentials, these two solutions are ideal for short-term, diurnal energy storage. A set of 100 renewable electricity futures in Australia are modelled in this work. Australia has one of the highest greenhouse gas emissions per capita and is the largest exporter of coal ( 1) and liquified natural gas ( 2) in the world. However, Australia is a global leader in rapid per-capita deployment of renewable energy as shown in Fig. 1: over the years 2018-2020, the combined solar photovoltaics and wind deployment will be above 15 GW, which is greater than 200 watts per capita per year 4 times the per capita rate for the European Union, the United States, China and Japan and 10 times the global average 8 . If this rate were to continue, Australia would be on track for 50 renewable electricity in 2025 and 100 in the early 2030s 9 . The modelling of a zero-carbon renewable electricity future makes a
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	1 Abstract - The market for battery storage systems (BSS) has been growing rapidly for years and will multiply in the future . This fast growth leads to a lack of information regarding current developments. With this extension of our previous works , we contribute key figures for model parametrization and political decision -making and depict the market development in Germany, one of the leadin g storage markets worldwide . In empirical analyses , we evaluate and combine all major public databases on national stationary and mobile storage as well as our data bases from subsidy programs and extend the insights by literature research and bilateral industry exchange . In comparison to 2021 , the market for home storage systems (HSS) grew by 5 2 in terms of battery energy in 2022 and is by far the largest stationary storage market in Germany. We estimate that abo ut 220,000 HSS (1. 9 GWh 1.2 GW) were installed solely in 2022 . The emerging market for industrial storage systems (ISS) grew by 24 in 202 2, with a total of 1,200 ISS (0.08 GWh 0.0 4 GW) installed. The market for large -scale storage systems (LSS) increased strongly by 910 with 47 LSS (0. 47 GWh 0.43 GW) commissioned. The electric vehicle (EV) market grew with 693,000 new EV ( 27 GWh 43 GW (DC) 4.5 GW (AC) ) by 34 in terms of battery energy. The number of EV per charging point grew from 9 in 201 7 to 23 in 202 2. System BSS prices increased significantly in 2022 and were estimated at 1,200 kWh for HSS . LSS prices ranged on average from 310 kWh to 465 kWh . In comparison , if the 2022 BEV prices for the whole vehicle are simply divided by the ir battery energy, the mean specific BEV system prices range from 800 kWh for medium to 1,240 kWh for luxury cars. In total, we estimate that over 650,000 stationary BSS with a battery energy of 7.0 GWh with an inverter power of 4.3 GW and 1,878,000 EV with a battery energy of 65 GWh and a DC charging power of 91 GW (12 GW AC) were operated in Germany by the end of 202 2. The cumulative battery energy of about 72 GWh is therefore nearly twice the 39 GWh of nationally installed pumped hydro storage demonstrating the enormous flexibility potential of battery storage for the energy system. Index Terms battery storage, charging infrastructure, electric vehicles, e nergy storage , market development , prices I. INTRODUCTION This paper is an update of our existing peer-reviewed works 1 4 and extends large parts of the previous analyses. In current forecasts on the development of the global battery market, everyone agrees: it is going steeply upwards. Nevertheless, the estimates differ significantly from each other and change over time , which is due to different future scenarios , changing regulatory, geopolitical circumstances, and a lack of trans parently accessible information as a study on the European storage market explicitly points out 5 . To understand the market dynamic s, we can have a look at the past: A 2017 study predicted the cumulative stationary battery world installations for the year 2030 to range between aroun d 100 GWh and 420 GWh depending on the scenario 6 . Another 2017 study estimated The development of batt ery storage systems in Germany: A market review (status 2023 ) Jan Figgenera,b,c,d , Christopher Hechta,b,c, David Haberschusza,b,c,d, Jakob Borsa,b, Kai Gerd Spreuera,b, Kai-Philipp Kairiesd, Peter Stenzele, and Dirk Uwe Sauer a,b,c,d,f a Institute for Power Electronics and Electrical Drives (ISEA), RWTH Aachen University , Germany b Institute for Power Generation and Storage Systems (PGS), E.ON Energy Research Center (E.ON ERC) , RWTH Aachen University , Germany c Juelich Aachen Research Alliance, JARA -Energy, Germany d ACCURE Battery Intelligence GmbH , Germany e TH Köln, Cologne Institu te for Renewable Energy (CIRE) , Germany f Helmholtz Institute Münster (HI MS), IEK-12, Forschungszentrum J ülich, Germany Corresponding author at Institute for Power Electronics and Electrical Drives (ISEA) Mathieustraße 10 , 52074 Aachen, Germany Mail: jan.figgener rwth -aachen.de E-Mail address: jan.figgener isea.rwth -aachen.de This preprint was originally uploaded o n arxiv (https: doi.org 10.48550 arXiv.2203.06762 ) under the license CC-BY 4.0 Table 1: Abbreviations sorted alphabetically. Abbreviation Description aFFR Automatic frequency restoration reserve ADAC General German Automobile Club BEV Battery electric vehicle BSS Battery storage system CP Charging point (for electric vehicles) CS Charging station (for electric vehicles) DB Database EPR Energy -to-power (ratio) EV Electric vehicle FCP Fast charging point ( for electric vehicles) FCR Frequency containment reserve FMTA (German) Federal Motor Transport Authority FNA (German) Federal Network Agency HSS Home storage system ISEA Institute for Power Electronics and Electrical Drives ISS Industrial storage systems LSS Large -scale storage system PHEV Plug -in hybrid electric vehicle PV Photovoltaic SOC State -of-charge TSO Transmission system operator 2 cumulative installations of 305 GWh for 2030 7 . Onl y a few years later, in 2022, they updated their estimate by a factor of four to 1,194 GWh as the storage world is in flux 8 . According to their estimat e, the countries with the most battery installations will be the United States , China, Japan, India, Germany, United Kingdom , Australia, and South Korea among others 8 . In order to contribute to transparency, we evaluate the c urrent developments for Germany while many ke y figures like prices, use cases , and system design are also valid for larger parts of the world. There are already many publications on the market development of battery storage in the literature . According to our classification in 1 , these can be divided into the three areas of (1) insti tutional publications, (2) peer -reviewed publications, a nd (3) consultant publications. (1) The insti tutional publications are often from renowned organizations such as IRENA 6 , the European Commission 5 , or the IEA 9 . The reports, however, cover larger geographical areas such
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Hydrodynamic constraints on the energy e ciency of droplet electricity generators Cui Wang, Jia Zhou, and Antoine Riaud State Key Laboratory of ASIC and System, School of Microelectronics, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China Wanghuai Xu and Zuankai Wang Department of Mechanical Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 999077, Chinay (Dated: December 24, 2020) 1arXiv:2012.12428v1 physics.flu-dyn 23 Dec 2020 Abstract Electric energy generation from falling droplets has seen a hundred-fold rise in e ciency over the past year. However, even these newest devices can only extract a small portion of the droplet energy. In this paper, we theoretically investigate the contributions of hydrodynamic and electric losses in limiting the e ciency of droplet electricity generators (DEG). Noting that the electro- mechanical energy conversion occurs during the recoil that immediately follows droplet impact, we identify three limits on existing droplet electric generators: (i) the impingement velocity is limited in order to maintain the droplet integrity; (ii) much of droplet mechanical energy is squandered in overcoming viscous shear force with the substrate; (iii) insu cient electrical charge of the substrate. Of all these e ects, we found that up to 83 of the total energy available was lost by viscous dissipation during spreading. Minimizing this loss by using cascaded DEG devices to reduce the droplet kinetic energy may increase future devices e ciency beyond 10 . I. INTRODUCTION Droplet electricity generators (DEG) are designed to harvest the kinetic energy of rain droplets to power small wireless sensors. Despite a 100-fold increase in e ciency over the past few years 1 ?, 2 , even state-of-the-art devices only recover 10 of the kinetic energy of water 3 , as opposed to the nearly 100 e ciency achieved by hydroelectric dams. Unlike dams, which extract energy from the mechanical work of water on the hydro- turbines, DEG, and more broadly triboelectric nanogenerators (TENG) harvest energy from charges accumulated on surfaces which are then used to drive an electric current through an external circuit by electrostatic induction 4 . In the case of DEG, the charges are spon- taneously created by water at the surface of polymers 5 8 by contact electri cation 9 , a process which can be intensi ed by applying a voltage across the polymer layer 10 . In the latest studies, a grounded metallic electrode is placed underneath the polymer and is connected to a small metallic strip on the top (see Fig. 1). According to the present un- derstanding, 2, 11 , this sandwiched structure then behaves as a biased capacitor. Upon contact with water, the capacitor is discharged through the load, which releases the electro- http: homepage.fudan.edu.cn ariaud ; antoine riaud fudan.edu.cn yzuanwang cityu.edu.hk 2 FIG. 1. Droplet electric generator with charge circulation 1, 3, 10 . (a)The substrate is initially charged by the impingement of many droplets or other electrical forcing 10 and forms charge pairs on each side of the substrate. (b)Upon contact, the substrate capacitor is discharged through the load and the liquid. (c)During the recoil, trapped charges in the polymer are left behind, so that positive charges move back to the ITO to restore the charge pairs. static energy that was stored previously 2 . Meanwhile, mobile charges accumulate at the water-polymer interface. When the droplet recedes, those charges are detached from the interface and forced to return to the bottom electrode 3 . While this picture predicts the transfer of charges through the DEG with a remarkable accuracy 2 , it does not consider the hydrodynamic side of the picture. Yet, the harvested electrical energy accounts at best for 10 of the initial droplet energy, meaning that, in our present understanding, at least 90 of the droplet energy is unaccounted for. A comprehensive DEG model would consider (i) the electrical process at play, (ii) the hydrodynamics (iii) the electrochemical charge stability and (iv) the electrohydrodynamic coupling. Since only 10 of the DEG energy is electrical, we neglect the electrohydrody- 3 namic coupling and focus mainly on the hydrodynamic process. In this simpli ed view, the DEG hydrodynamics are exactly those of a droplet impacting an inclined plane. Even in this elementary picture, three e ects compete to dominate the droplet dynamics: inertia, surface forces, and viscous dissipation. For a spherical droplet of radius a, density , vis- cosity , surface tension falling at a velocity U0, the ratio of kinetic energy to viscous work is approximately the Reynolds number Re aU0 , while the ratio of kinetic energy to surface energy is connected to the Weber number We U02a . During impacts, the liquid spreads into a thin lamella on the solid where most of the energy conversion occurs 12 . It was noticed quite early that a large fraction of the droplet energy is lost during impact 13 . This loss was attributed to viscous dissipation within the lamella 13 15 until experiments of low-viscosity drop impacts on super-hydrophobic and slippery substrates suggested that a large fraction of the energy was actually converted to internal kinetic energy (akin to turbulence) 16 18 . Several recent works have since attempted to bridge the gap between these two regimes 12, 19, 20 . The numerical simulations of Wildeman et al. 12 are of particular interest for this study, as they show the location of viscous losses within the drops during impacts, and quantify the fraction of energy dissipated as viscous work and internal kinetic energy over the entire spreading step with no-slip and free-slip boundary conditions. According to this model, nearly half of the initial kinetic energy of low-viscosity droplets is lost as viscous dissipation in the lamella during spreading, regardless of the slip length, impact velocity and uid viscosity. The stability of the lamella formed during the impact is also a key concern for DEG. In- tuitively, a splashing droplet releases some surface and kinetic energy in the form of ejected daughter droplets. Lamella breakup depends on a competition between a destabilizing suc- tion and lubrication forces that lift it from the
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	arXiv:2101.07491v2 cs.LO 10 Mar 2022AUTOMATED VERIFICATION AND SYNTHESIS OF STOCHASTIC HYBRID SYSTEMS: A SURVEY ABOLFAZL LAVAEI1, SADEGH SOUDJANI2, ALESSANDRO ABATE3, AND MAJID ZAMANI4,5 Abstract. Stochastic hybrid systems have received signiﬁcant attent ions as a relevant modelling framework describing many systems, from engineering to the life scien ces: they enable the study of numerous applica- tions, including transportation networks, biological sys tems and chemical reaction networks, smart energy and power grids, and beyond. Automated veriﬁcation and policy s ynthesis for stochastic hybrid systems can be inherently challenging: this is due to the heterogeneity of their dynamics (presence of continuous and discrete components), the presence of uncertainty, and in some appli cations the large dimension of state and input sets. Over the past few years, a few hundred articles have inv estigated these models, and developed diverse and powerful approaches to mitigate diﬃculties encountere d in the analysis and synthesis of such complex stochastic systems. In this survey, we overview the most rec ent results in the literature and discuss diﬀerent approaches, including (in)ﬁnite abstractions ,veriﬁcation and synthesis for temporal logic speciﬁcation s,sto- chastic similarity relations ,(control) barrier certiﬁcates ,compositional techniques , and a selection of results oncontinuous-time stochastic systems ; we ﬁnally survey recently developed software tools that implement the discussed approaches. Throughout the manuscript we discus s a few open topics to be considered as potential future research directions: we hope that this survey will gu ide younger researchers through a comprehensive understanding of the various challenges, tools, and soluti ons in this enticing and rich scientiﬁc area. 1.Introduction Stochastic hybrid systems (SHS) concern complex dynamical mode ls combining both digital-computation ele- ments and physical components, tightly interacting with each othe r in feedback interconnections. SHS models thus comprise discrete dynamics modelling computational componen ts including hardware and software, and continuous dynamics that model the physical system. Due to their broad real-world applications, such as (air) traﬃc networks, transportation systems, energy networ ks, process engineering, biological systems, and robotic manufacturing, (cf. HWS04, HS05, PH08, SH10b, VGS18 , to name a few), over the past few years SHS have gained remarkable attention in the areas of control theo ry, formal veriﬁcation, applied mathematics, and performance evaluation, among others. SHS applications have become more complex, with more digital components (e.g., for computation and communication) that intera ct with physical (analog) parts: this tight interactioncauses majordiﬃculties in designing and analyzingthese c omplex systems. Accordingly, the ability to handle the interaction between continuous and discrete dynamic s is a prerequisite for providing a rigorous formal framework for formal veriﬁcation and synthesis of SHS. Grown ﬁrst within the area of hybrid systems and of stochastic con trol, SHS have been ﬁrst comprehensively presented and widely discussed in the books in BLE 06 and in CL06 . The historical roots in hybrid systems that underpin SHS research have brought to an inter-disciplinary lo ok at these models, with emphasis split betweenclassicaldynamicalanalysisandcontrolsynthesisonthe onehand, aswellascomputabilityandformal veriﬁcation around rich, high-level speciﬁcations on the other. Au tomated veriﬁcation and policy synthesis for SHSaroundhigh-leveltemporalrequirements, e.g.,thoseexpressedas(linear)temporallogicformulae Pnu77 , is the core emphasis of this survey. Given a temporal property of in terest for a dynamical model, formal veriﬁcation is concerned to soundly check whether the desired spe ciﬁcation is satisﬁed. If the underlying model is stochastic, the goal translates in formally quantifying the probability of satisfying the property of interest. A synthesis problem instead concerns dynamical models w ith the presence of control inputs: the goal is to formally design a controller (also known in diﬀerent areas as policy , or strategy, or scheduler), which is 1 2 ABOLFAZL LAVAEI1, SADEGH SOUDJANI2, ALESSANDRO ABATE3, AND MAJID ZAMANI4,5 by and large a state-feedback architecture, to enforce the pro perty of interest. This procedure is also called correct-by-construction control design , since every step in the controller synthesis procedure comes with a formal guarantee. In a stochastic setting, the key objective is t o synthesize a controller that optimizes (e.g., maximizes) the probability of satisfying the given speciﬁcation. As a r esult of their intrinsic soundness, formal methods approaches do not require any costly, exhaustive, and p ossibly unsuccessful post-facto validation, which is needed in many safety-critical, real-world applications. The intrinsic complexity of SHS models, resulting from the aforement ioned interaction of discrete and contin- uous components, as well as from the presence of uncertainty th at is modelled via probability terms, makes it in general diﬃcult - if at all possible - to obtain analytical results in th eir formal veriﬁcation or for control synthesis tasks. Hence, veriﬁcation and policy synthesis for SHS a re generally addressed by techniques that either leverage model (ﬁnite) approximations, or the use of suﬃcie nt conditions for analysis. Accordingly, we categorize these two classes of approaches as (i) discretization- based and (ii) discretization-free techniques. 1.1.Discretization-based Techniques. In the analysis of SHS, it is often the case that quantities of in- terest, such as value functions, or the characterization of optim al policies, are in general not available in a closed (explicit, analytical) form. Therefore, a suitable approach f or analyzing SHS is to approximate given ( concrete ) SHS models by simpler ones endowed with ﬁnite state s paces, also known as ﬁnite abstrac- tions .1Finite abstractions of SHS are often in the form of Markov decision p rocesses (MDP), where each discrete state corresponds to a set of continuous states of the concrete SHS model (similarly for inputs). In practice, such ﬁnite abstractions can be generated by partitionin g state input sets of the concrete models given some discretization parameters. If the underlying SHS is auto nomous, i.e.,without control input, the ﬁnite MDP is then reduced to a ﬁnite Markov chain (MC). The discrete dynamics of the ﬁnite abstractions are similarly obtained from those of the concrete continuous models (cf . Fig. 1). Since the obtained abstractions are ﬁnite, many algorithmic machineries from computer science BK08 are directly applicable to perform analysis, model checking, or to synthesize controllers maximizing re wards or enforcing complex properties, including
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	ONSHORE-WIND ENERGY RENEWABLE ENERGY Wind energy potential of Germany Limits and consequences of large-scale wind energy use Axel Kleidon The transition of our energy system to renewable energies is necessary in order not to heat up the climate any further and to achieve climate neutrality. The use of wind energy plays an important role in this transition in Germany. But how much wind energy can be used and what are the possible consequences for the atmosphere if more and more wind energy is used? The German government wants to achieve the goal of a climate-neutral energy system by 2050. This goal envisages a strong expansion of wind energy, and 2 of Germany s surface area is to be made available for this purpose. Scenarios from various institutions translate this into about 150 - 200 gigawatts of installed capacity, contributing 330 - 770 TWh per year to electricity generation. As an example, we refer to the studies by Agora Energiewende and the German Wind Energy Association 1, 2 . Currently, only 56 GW of capacity is installed, distributed across 28230 wind turbines located in Germany at the end of 2021 3 . These wind turbines generated 90.3 TWh year of electricity, contributing just under 16 to the current electricity generation of 570 TWh per year (as of 2021, 4 ). This means that we need a strong increase in wind turbine installations in the coming decades to achieve the goal of climate neutrality. But how much wind energy is there in Germany, and how much of it can be used? What are the eﬀects on the atmosphere if more and more kinetic energy is extracted from it by the wind turbines? While such energy scenarios often focus on what is technically possible, here we want to look at the physics of the atmosphere and derive simple estimates that can provide answers to these questions. How wind energy comes to Germany In order to estimate how much wind energy can be used in Germany, we ﬁrst look at where wind energy comes from and how much of it comes to Germany. Wind turbines in Germany mainly use large-scale winds associated with the high and low pressure systems in the mid-latitudes. These are directly linked to the large-scale atmospheric circulation. This circulation is driven by planetary diﬀerences in solar radiation: tropical areas absorb more solar radiation than mid-latitudes and polar areas, thus the tropics are warmer and the poles colder. Temperature diﬀerences lead to diﬀerent air densities, these cause air pressure to drop less with altitude in warm areas, which generates potential energy. This in turn is associated with diﬀerences in air pressure in the middle atmosphere, where most of the weather activity takes place. Air is accelerated, mass is moved and rearranged, thus potential energy is dissipated, heat is transported and the diﬀerences in solar heating are depleted. Kinetic energy plays a central role in this process, as it is directly linked to motion and heat transport. It is embedded as a form of energy in the conversion chain from incident solar energy to heating diﬀerences, which leads to potential energy from which kinetic energy is extracted, which is ultimately converted back into heat by friction and radiated from the Earth into space in the form of longwave radiation. from 110 Translated version Originally published in German - Cite as: Kleidon, A. (2023) Windenergiepotenzial von Deutschland , Physik in unserer Zeit, 54(3), 142-148. https: www.doi.org 10.1002 piuz.202301670 The power contained in the large-scale circulation that generates kinetic energy can be easily estimated with the help of thermodynamics. To do this, we consider the generation of air movement as the result of a heat engine (or power plant , 5 ) driven by the diﬀerential heating by solar radiation and the associated temperature diﬀerences. The transported heat represents the heat ﬂux that drives the heat engine, together with the temperature diﬀerence. It is thus relatively easy to estimate that the large-scale circulation only provides about 2 W m-2 , i.e. generates kinetic energy from heating diﬀerences 6 . This order of magnitude agrees very well with the power estimated from observations, so the atmosphere works as hard as it can. from 210WinterSummer Wind speed m s-1Wind speed m s-1 Dissipation W m-2Dissipation W m-2Wind speeds at 10m height and dissipation for winter (December-February) and summer (June-August). The maps show long-term means over the years 1980-2010 of the weather reanalysis dataset ERA-5 7 .FIG. 1: WIND AND DISSIPATION The generated motion is then dissipated by friction, predominantly in the so-called boundary layer near the Earth s surface, i.e. it is converted into heat. Because of the conservation of angular momentum, however, the friction is not evenly distributed, but is concentrated in the mid latitudes, precisely where the westerly winds blow relatively strongly and the high and low pressure systems alternate, in a part of the Earth where Germany is also located. This means that the frictional loss over Germany is about twice as high as the global average, at about 4 W m-2 (Figure 1). In Figure 1 we can also see the seasonal variations very clearly: In winter, the frictional losses are much higher than in summer. This, in turn, can be explained by the atmospheric power plant : in winter, the diﬀerences in radiation between the tropics and the polar regions are greater, the power plant works harder, and consequently there are stronger winds. For Germany we can summarize this as follows: Wind energy is predominantly generated in the so-called free atmosphere, i.e. far from the surface, from where it is brought to the surface and is dissipated by friction. This means that near-surface wind energy use can have practically no eﬀect on the large-scale circulation. After all, wind turbines only use the kinetic energy that is lost to surface friction anyway, while weather patterns take their course far above, decoupled from the surface. This has a greater, and more direct, consequence for the supply of wind energy if it is to
__label__energy	1 Perturbed Decision-Focused Learning for Modeling Strategic Energy Storage Ming Yi, Member, IEEE, Saud Alghumayjan, Student Member, IEEE , Bolun Xu, Member, IEEE, Abstract This paper presents a novel decision-focused frame- work integrating the physical energy storage model into machine learning pipelines. Motivated by the model predictive control for energy storage, our end-to-end method incorporates the prior knowledge of the storage model and infers the hidden reward that incentivizes energy storage decisions. This is achieved through a dual-layer framework, combining a prediction layer with an optimization layer. We introduce the perturbation idea into the designed decision-focused loss function to ensure the differentiability over linear storage models, supported by a the- oretical analysis of the perturbed loss function. We also develop a hybrid loss function for effective model training. We provide two challenging applications for our proposed framework: energy storage arbitrage, and energy storage behavior prediction. The numerical experiments on real price data demonstrate that our arbitrage approach achieves the highest profit against existing methods. The numerical experiments on synthetic and real- world energy storage data show that our approach achieves the best behavior prediction performance against existing benchmark methods, which shows the effectiveness of our method. Index Terms Differentiable Decision-Focused Framework, Energy Storage Arbitrage, Perturbation Idea, Energy Storage Behavior I. I NTRODUCTION Over the past decade, energy storage integration has proven essential for economical and reliable power system decar- bonization 1 . Facilitated by Federal Energy Regulatory Com- mission (FERC) Order 841 2 , energy storage systems can now participate in all wholesale energy markets in the United States. Given their limited capacity, energy storage resources must strategically plan their responses based on future price expectations 3 , where this process is known as energy storage arbitrage. Price arbitrage has become one of the most popular services 4 , whereby energy storage systems discharge when prices are high and charge when prices are low. The energy storage arbitrage provides flexible generation and demand capacity, improving power system efficiency and supporting a more resilient grid. In practice, most energy storage owners adopt a model predictive control (MPC) framework for storage arbitrage, which decouples price prediction from storage control. They develop proprietary electricity price predictors to capture mar- ket fluctuations and input the predicted prices into arbitrage This work was supported in part by the Data Science Institute in Columbia University and in part by the National Science Foundation under award ECCS- 2239046. (Corresponding author: Ming Yi.) Ming Yi is with the Data Science Institute, Columbia University, New York City, NY . Saud Alghumayjan, and Bolun Xu are with Earth and Environmental Engineering, Columbia University, New York City, NY . Email: my2826, saa2244, bx2177 columbia.edu.optimization models. However, decoupling prediction and op- timization in MPC frameworks introduces storage control and regulation challenges. For storage operators, machine learning predictors often struggle to effectively account for how their predictions will be utilized in the physical energy storage model, particularly given the limited data availability and computing power in practical implementations 5 . Moreover, as each energy storage owner develops their own price predictor to maximize profits, energy storage behaviors are intertwined with electricity pricing dynamics. Given the volatile nature of electricity prices, these arbitrage behaviors exhibit inherent variability, adding uncertainty to the power system and posing significant challenges for grid operation and planning. While energy storage offers promising benefits, its unpredictable actions can disrupt grid stability. Electric- ity market regulators are increasingly concerned that non- transparent storage arbitrage models may enable operators to exercise market power 6 , potentially undermining social welfare. As a result, regulators seek systematic approaches to interpret proprietary prediction models and understand the relationship between strategic storage behaviors and market prices. Accurate prediction of energy storage behavior is thus crucial for power system planning and operations, includ- ing net-load forecasting, demand response estimation, market power monitoring, and resource adequacy planning. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a decision- focused framework incorporating the energy storage behavior as a perturbed differentiable layer in the learning pipeline. Our proposed framework offers a significant advantage over existing decision-focused approaches 7 in that it does not rely on ground truth prediction information. The result learning model is more efficient at both predicting and optimizing storage operation from the perspective of storage operators or regulators. The proposed framework is validated in two strategic applications: (1) energy storage arbitrage, which maximizes profit through optimized storage operations, and (2) energy storage behavior prediction, which forecasts storage actions based on historical data. The contributions of this paper include: We develop a decision-focused, end-to-end pipeline in- corporating the physical energy storage model. The pro- posed framework includes a prediction layer to infer the hidden reward and an optimization layer to model the decision-making of energy storage. We exploit the perturbation idea to solve the differentiable issue in the decision-focused loss function. We also add a predictor regularizer in the loss function to enhance the prediction performance.arXiv:2406.17085v2 eess.SY 5 Dec 2024 2 We provide a theoretical analysis for the perturbed loss function. Specifically, we prove that the perturbed loss function is convex and that its gradient is Lipschitz continuous. We also show the connection between the perturbed loss function and the original loss function. We validate the proposed framework through two ap- plications: energy storage arbitrage and forecasting the energy storage behavior. To the best of our knowledge, this specific formulation for both applications has not been studied before. The numerical experiments for two applications on syn- thetic datasets and real-world datasets demonstrate that our approach outperforms the benchmark methods. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II reviews the related works. Section III introduces the formula- tion. Section IV presents our proposed end-to-end approach. The numerical results are reported in Section V , and Section VI concludes our paper. II. M OTIVATION AND RELATED WORKS A. Learning-aided Storage Operation Storage owners can arbitrage electricity prices by charging energy when prices are low and selling it back when prices are high. They can submit bids in the day-ahead
__label__energy	A Silicon MEMS EM vibration energy harvester Y. Yang, U. Radhakrishna, D. Ward, A. P. Chandrakasan and J. H. Lang MIT, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. E-mail: markyang mit.edu Abstract. This paper presents an optimized silicon-MEMS electromagnetic vibration energy harvester suitable for applications such as machine health monitoring. The harvester comprises a DRIE-etched silicon suspension, and pick-and-place N42 NdBFe magnets and copper coils, housed in a 3D-printed package. The harvester is designed to operate near 50 Hz with 0.5-1 g vibrations using a long-stroke suspension. Multi-domain harvester optimization results in an open-circuit voltage of 1.7 V, a matched-load power output of 2.2 mW, and a matched-load power-output density of 1.23 mW cm3at 1.1 gwith a resonance frequency of 76 :3Hz. 1. Introduction This paper presents a vibration energy harvester, employing a Lorentz-force energy converter, that is suitable for powering miniaturized autonomous IoT sensors 1 2 . The harvester comprises a DRIE-etched silicon suspension, and pick-and-place N42 NdBFe magnets and copper coils, all enclosed in a 3D-printed plastic package. The harvester has an active volume of 1.79 cm3, and an output power POutof 2.2 mW at 1 :1gand 76 Hz under matched load, yielding a power density (PD) of 1.23 mW cm3and a normalized power density (NPD) of 1.02 mW cm3 g2, the highest reported PD and NPD among silicon-based MEMS harvesters reported to date 2 . The high POutfollows the use of a four-bar-linkage suspension that lowers beam stress compared to our earlier accordion suspension 3 , enabling mm-range strokes and hence mW-level POut. The key contributions here are: (i) large-stroke (2 mm) silicon suspensions with stress analysis, (ii) harvester implementation yielding POut 2:2 mW, and (iii) optimized design guidelines and scaling to further reduce harvester size while preserving POut. 2. Design and Optimization As described below, harvester design is based on optimizations over mechanical, magnetic and electrical domains. To begin, a mechanical optimization of the harvester spring-mass-damper system is executed following 3 . To do so, the mechanical power PMconverted by the harvester is expressed at resonance in sinusoidal steady state in the absence of mechanical loss as PM B!2X2 2 !XMA 2 !XA (L1 2S)L2L3 2 (1) where damping coe cient Bis a proxy for energy conversion through the Lorentz-force energy converter,!is the resonance frequency, Xis the stroke amplitude, Mis the proof-mass mass, Ais vibration acceleration, is the density of the proof mass, L1,L2andL3are the dimensions of the harvester with L1in the stroke direction, and S Xis the single-sided space within L1arXiv:1910.02131v1 physics.app-ph 4 Oct 2019 Figure 1. (a) Cross-sectional side view of the harvester. (b) Top view of the suspension and magnets glued together. (c) Individual 3D-printed packaging parts to be combined. (d) Harvester at its maximum de ection showing the bending of the beams. allocated for stroke; the assumption of negligible mechanical loss is supported by experimental observation. Following 3 , PMis maximized when X S L1 4, yielding PM;Max !SA (L1 2S)L2L3 2 !AL2 1L2L3 16: (2) Thus,L1, is allocated equally to the mass and bi-directional stroke 2 X. This assumes the suspension springs permit (nearly) all of Sto be used for X, which was true for the accordion suspension 3 . Finally, following (2), the longest harvester dimension is used for the stroke directionL1for maximum PM. Note that to achieve the maximized power in (2), the Lorentz- force energy converter must provide the damping Brequired to satisfy (1) and X L1 4. To achieve POutin the mW range, the stroke Xmust be in the mm range. Our previous accordion suspension 3 did not yield large Xas the springs fractured at X 0:6 mm due to high stress caused by the side-bar used to raise the resonant frequencies of the higher-order vibration modes. A four-bar-linkage suspension is chosen here to overcome the spring fracture at large strokes while raising the resonance frequencies of the higher-order modes. Figures 1(a)- (b) show a cross-sectional side-view of the fabricated harvester and a top-view of the silicon four-bar-linkage suspension. The four-bar linkage is not as space e cient as the accordion suspension as it requires X S 2.PMin (1) is then maximized with X S 2 L1 8, yielding PM;Max !SA (L1 2S)L2L3 4 !AL2 1L2L3 32: (3) However, the springs in the new suspension should experience lower stress than in 3 because they are not torqued by the side bar. This is evident from the spring bending at maximum stroke shown in Figure 1(d). Second, the spring widths are tapered via narrowing towards their middle to create a more uniform stress pro le. Third, the joints are designed to have symmetric llets with radius of ve spring widths to further reduce stress. Fourth, the spring length is increased to reduce strain. These precautions yield the desired stroke of X S 2 2 mm as shown in Figure 1(d), the largest stroke reported in a Si-MEMS harvester suspension 2 . The suspension is dimensioned to achieve a near-50-Hz resonance subject to the constraints that the spring width exceeds 25 m as limited by etch resolution, and beam stress is less than 130 MPa. Figure 2(a) shows the resonant modal analysis for the optimized suspension highlighting a fundamental resonance translational mode fResclose to 50 Hz and a 5-fold separation between fResand higher-order resonance frequencies. Solidworks simulations show the lowest resonant modes are: translational along L1at 76Hz; translational along the L3 (magnetic pole) direction at 270 Hz; and rotational about L3at 575 Hz. The stress analysis in Figure 2(b) also shows that the maximum beam stress at full stroke is 130 MPa compared to 460 MPa in the accordion suspension. Thus, the mechanical optimization achieves optimum resource allocation for mass and stroke while the suspension exhibits the desired fResandX. Two anti-parallel N42 NdBFe permanent magnets are the magnetic ux source through which Bis implemented, and the proof mass because they o er higher mass density than loose windings. 4.57x108 0 Pa2.03x1081.02x1083.05x108(a)(b)Resonant modal analysisNon-linear stress analysisf1 76.3 Hzf3 734 Hzf2 270 Hz xmax 2 mmxmax 2 mmSmax 0.46 GPaSmax 0.13 GPa (c)XXFigure 2.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 Comparing electricity generation technologies based on multiple criteria scores from an expert group Euan Mearns 1 and Didier Sornette1.2 ETH Zurich 1Department of Management, Technology and Economics Scheuchzerstrasse 7 , CH -8092 Zurich, Switzerland 2Institute of Risk Analysis, Prediction and Management (Risks-X), Academy for Advanced Interdisciplinary Studies, Southern University of Science and Technology (SUSTech), Shenzhen, 518055, China emearns ethz.ch dsornette ethz.ch Corresponding author. Highlights: 13 common electricity generation technologies were evaluated using multi criteria decision analysis (MCDA) where values were assigned by the expert judgment of a professional group. A hierarchical scheme of 12 criteria organized into 5 categories of health, environment, grid, economics and resources was used to provide a holistic measure of energy quality. The three leading technologies to emerge are nuclear power, combined cycle gas and hydroelectric power. The three trailing technologies are solar PV, biomass and tidal lagoon. Our findings are consistent with the baseline cost approach of the 2004 -2009 EU funded NEEDS project but contrast sharply with the MCDA survey of the same project that found CaTe solar PV and solar thermal power to be the most promising technologies for central Europe. Abstract : Multi criteria decision analysis (MCDA) has been used to provide a holistic evaluation of the quality of 13 electricity generation technologies in use today . A group of 19 energy experts cast scores on a scale of 1 to 10 using 12 quality criteria based around the pillars of sustainability society, environment and economy - with the aim of quantifying each criterion for each technology . The total mean score is employed as a holistic measure of system quality. The top three technologies to emerge in rank order are nuc lear, combined cycle gas and hydroelectric . The bottom three are solar PV, biomass and tidal lagoon . All seven new renewable technologies fared badly , perceived to be expensive, unreliable, and not as environmentally friendly as is often assumed. We validate our approach by 1) comparing scores for pairs of criteria where we expect a correlation to exist ; 2) comparing our qualitative scores with quantitative data; and; 3) comparing our qualitative scores with NEEDS project baseline costs. In many cases, R2 0.8 suggests that the structured hierarchy of our approach has led to scores that may be used in a semi -quantitative way. Adopting the results of this survey would lead to a very different set of energy policy priorities in the OECD and throughout the world. (210 words) 2 Abstract 1. Introduction 2. Project Design 2.1 Objectives 2.2 Choice of electricity technologies 2.3 The MC DA hierarchy and design 2.4 Data acquisition: The Energy Matters Poll (EMP) 2.5 Participant selection 2.6 Data compilation and presentation 3. Results 3.1 Convergence on mean 3.2 Weighting methodology 3.3 Summary of scores for 13 e lectricity technologies 3.4 Applying weights 4. Validation of results 4.1 Pairwise correlations between scores for various criteria 4.2 Correlations between scores and real data 4.3 Comparison between EMP MCDA and NEEDS baseline costs 5. Conclusion and policy implications Appendix A Failure of Global and UK energy policies Appendix B Weaknesses of the NEEDS MCDA approach Appendix C Validation of the EMETS MCDA scores Keywords : energy quality, MCDA, expert judgment, policy 3 1. Introduction The global electricity generation system is in process of being transformed, based mainly on the summary opinion of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) who have now stated that , if global mean temperatures rise more than 1.5 C above pre-industrial levels , dangerous climate change may occur (IPCC special report 8th October 2018 1 ). The IPCC tends to attribute most observed climate change (i.e. temperature rise) to greenhouse gas emissions in particular CO 2 produced mainly from combusting fossil fuels 2 . Given near total failure to reduce emissions in the 30 years from 1990 to 2020 (Figure 1), it is perhaps naïve to assume that the next 30 yea rs will be any more successful , as drastic changes with momentous ramifications would be required. The previous assessment was to limit warming to 2 C 2 and lowering the threshold has raised the bar making, what so far has been unattainable , even more so. Figure . 1 Left reconstruction of atmospheric CO 2 based on ice cores from Law Dome 3 and Siple 4 (Antarctica) spliced with annual averages of actual atmospheric measurements made at Mauna Loa (Hawaii) 5 . Right annual average CO 2 from Mauna Loa (Hawaii) 5 compared with human emissions as reporte d by BP 6 . The only detectable declines in emissions occur in 1973 and 1979 linked to spikes in oil price that led to a decline in oil consumption and in 2008 09 linked to decline in energy consumption resulting from the global financial crisis. Climate treaties in 1995 and 2015 did not result in discernible declines in CO 2 emissions although it can still be argued that emissions might have risen more than recorded without those treaties. Irregularities in the emissions trend are not visible in the atmospheric CO 2 trend . Fossil fuels provide easy to access high quality energy and industrial society is founded on their consumption 7 . Some argue that it is nigh impossible for a prosperous civilized society to function without fossil fuels , especially oil 8 while others claim to show using computer models that a 100 renewables electricity supply can easily be achieved 9, 10 . A compromise position is to use carbon capture and storage to remove CO 2 from the flue gas of power stations 11 , thus enabling the continued use of fossil fuels . Others advocate nuclear power as the most viable low 4 carbon source of electricity 12 . Recognising the failure of past mandatory agreements to deliver CO 2 reductions, the latest treaty agree d in Paris opted for voluntary reductions where individual nations set their own targets 13 . However, summing the volunteered reductions does not come close to the emissions reductions required to
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Electricity generation using molten salt technology Charles Osarinmwian School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical Science, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL The anodic release of carbon dioxide gas in the molten salt Hall-Héroult process can be used to power a turbine for electricity generation. The application of this new concept in molten salt reprocessing in the nuclear industry is considered because it could facilitate the suitability of carbon dioxide cycles to certain types of nuclear reactor. The theoretical power of 27.8 MW generated by a molten salt Hall-Héroult reactor is comparable with a next-generation biomass plant that source s low-grade wood fuel to generate renewable heat and p ower using CHP steam turbine technology. Power generation The concept of generating electricity from molten salt processes will lead to the utiliz ation of carbon dioxide cycles in these processes . For nuclear energy to be sustainable, new large -scale fuel cycles will be required tha t may include fuel reprocessing1. In recent years, stable anodes based on highly electronically conducting alkali ruthenates have been developed for molten salt electrolytes for high temperature batteries (with proposed designs b ased on Hall-Héroult reactors )2. In the molten salt Hall-Héroult process, used for industrial scale aluminum production, the reactor typically consists of a steel shell lined with refractory alumina, carbon and a thermal insulator. Electric current enters the reactor through the carbon -based anode and flows through the alumina -containing m olten salt , to the molten aluminum deposited at the bottom of the reactor . There are two types of consumable carbon -based anode used: monolithic self-baked (Soderberg) and prebaked, where reactors containing prebaked anodes are more efficient and differ only in fabrication and stub connection3. The deposition of alumina on the bottom of the reactor, caused by poor dissolution and diffusion of alumina in the molten salt , creates alumina concentration gradients that generate non -uniform current distributions in the Hall-Héroult reactor . Installing slope d 0.57 -0.61 cm high drainable carbon cathodes coated with titanium diboride to offer wettability of aluminum could help i nhibit alumina deposition at the bottom of the reactor3,4. The dissolution and diffusion of alumina is mainly dependent on circulation patterns in the molten salt that are driven by anod ic gas bubbles5. These bubbles are evolved from anode reactions and lo wer the effective conductivity of the molten salt ; this influences the total reactor resistance and the local anodic current distribution where p olarization effects in cathodic reactions contribute much less to the anodic overvoltage6. Anod e reactions Al2O2F62 2F C CO 2 2AlF 4 4e Al2O2F42 4F C CO 2 2AlF 4 4e Cathod e reactions AlF 63 3e Al 6F AlF 4 3e Al 4F On-line monitoring of any changes in electrical conductivity induced by anodic gas bubbles could be performed non-invasively using electrical impedance tomograph y (Fig. 1). Although imaging the electrical conductivity distribution in the reactor would mark a paradigm shift in molten salt technology, several problems will need to be addressed (e .g. imaging is limited by the difficulty of quantifying the re liability of tomographic images and poor image distinguishability caused by the poor location of surrounding electrodes )7,8. It is important to note that the primary applications of electrical impedance tomograph y are in medicine and physiology9. Figure 1 : Schematic of an on-line electrical impedance tomography system for a Hall-Héroult reactor. Electrical impedance data is generated by injecting current into the Hall-Héroult reactor from a current source and the n measuring the voltage between electrodes that externally surround the reactor . Control Circuit Reconstruction Algorithms Image Display Hall-Héroult reactor To determine a theoretical power delivered by a turbine and the outlet temperature of the carbon dioxide gas stream from this turbine , an isentropic expansion of the gas strea m originating from the anode passes at 527 C and 80 bar across the turbine at 1 bar. Temperature control of the gas stream is crucial since the supercritical carbon dioxide cycle is well suited to any type of nuclear reactor with a core outlet temperature above 500 C10. The outlet temperature is determ ined from S(T1, P1) S(T2, P2) which indicates that the total entropy change of the gas stream S as a function of temperature T and pressure P (inlet: subscript 1; outlet: subscript 2) is zero. The entropy of the system is a sum of the ideal gas contribution Sig with the residual contribution Sres where the entropy change of the ideal gas is where Cp is the ideal gas specific heat capacity of carbon dioxide , A, B, D are ideal gas heat capacity coefficients (Table 1) and R is the universal gas constant . The residual entropy is computed from the Peng -Robinson equation of state: where and ω is the accentric factor (Table 1) , ρ is the density of carbon dioxide gas, Tc and Pc are the critical temperature and pressure of carbon dioxide gas respectively . Table 1: Properties of carbon dioxide Ideal gas heat capacity coefficients A 5.457; B 1.045 10 3 K 1; D 1.157 105 K2 Critical properties Accentric factor Tc 304.2 K; Pc 73.8 bar ω 0.225 In order to compute the residual entropy, a derivative with respect to temperature is taken for an expression of the residual Helmholtz free energy Ares. The residual Helmholtz free energy is computed by integrating the compressibility factor Z as follows where N is the number of moles. Combining Eqs. 2 and 6 gives The residual entropy is computed from the residual Helmholtz free energy by where Hence, the simultaneous equations are of the form: After solving Eq. 2 for the density of the inlet gas stream, Eqs. 10 and 11 are solved to give an outlet temperature of carbon dioxide gas from the turbine as 87 C. The theoretical power produced by the turbine w nM H (n is the molar flowrate of the gas stream; M is the molecu lar weight of carbon dioxide ) is
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	Optimized Operation of Available Energy Resources Based on Energy Consumption Parvathy S Robert Bosch Bangalore,India parvathy2202sobha gmail.com Nita R Patne Electrical Engineering Department VNIT, Nagpur, India nrpatne.eee vnit.ac.in Abstract Energy consumption and energy ananlytics has gained increased focus and consideration in industrial applications especially process lines to upgrade their performance and efficiency in the competitive world. A competent analytics method will be highly advantageous to provide the correct direction of energy saving for an industry. Energy analytics method was introduced into energy consumption time analysis model and is developed in this paper. Energy consumption of a campl ate production plant was analysed as a case study. The result shows that energy utilization is dependent on the time of operation of the equipments in the plant. Energy sparing obtained via technical innovation in unit process maybe misplaced due to the ex panding time of operation within the plant. Energy loss and the distribution of energy loss in the camplate production plant were analysed and the probable energy saving methods were identified from the results. Keywords process line, energy consumption, statistical methods, energy optimization, consumption ratio, statistical analysis I. INTRODUCTION The format of power generation capacity is planned to capture the peak demand to guarantee unwavering quality in supply. India still faces challenges in assembling its developing request for control and solid supply of growing energy demand, the World Bank said in a report. With a growing population, quick urbanization and an economy that s anticipated to develop at a normal rate of 7 each year, request for power in India will nearly triple between 2018 2040, World Bank said, citing projections from International Energy Agency 1 - 3 . In this scenario, this drastic increase in the energy consumption of the industrial sector in the recent years possess a serious threat to the power grid. With the same production rate or slight increase in production, the energy demand has risen in this sector. The production rate cannot be manipulated to address this issue. On the other hand, measures must be made in the efficient handling of the production lines in order to achieve energy efficiency in industries 3 . Variables influencing energy utilization of an industry must be evaluated through their life cycle. Those factors majorly inclu de the equipments employed in production line and their time of operation. These components have a coordinate effect on the energy effectiveness of buildings and comes about in an expanded outflows of carbon dioxide 4 . Energy optimization in the production line can be achieved through various ways. Many parameters factors decide the energy consumption hence the optimization of energy is a tedious process Energy optimization of industrial sector has been studied since 1950s. Conventional analysis e mployees Life Cycle Costing (LCC) and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). These have been employed to assess the environmental impacts and costs of the energy of industrial process lines since a very long time 5-7 . Barry Hyman and Tracy Reed has developed a more generic approach to assess the energy -intensity of manufacture process lines 9 . Many other methods including Standard Material Flow Diagram was developed to analyze the energy usage and production in various industrial fields 10- 11 . But all these conventional methods cannot be implemented in all developing countries. In these nations one major aspect to be considered is the constrained information of the workforce within the generation unit. Significant extent of work drive driving or regulating the loads in units is semi -skilled, this may quicken toward energy wastage through incorrect operation of equipments and device breakdown. Subsequently there are tall chances of energy wastage within the generation unit. The work presented in this paper introduces a competent analytics method including the operating time of equipments in the process line. This strategy will be exceedingly profitable to supply the right course of energy sparing for an industry by lessening energy wastage. The paper is organized as follows: Section II defines the objective of the work. Section III details the methodology followed in the work. Section IV includes the discussions and recommendations from analysis. Section V corporates the conclusions drawn from the analysis. II. OBJECTIVE The existing literature 12 - 15 commonly does not include the consumption time owing to the lack of skilful workers in the production line. Authors have employed various optimization models and different learning algorithms in production line 16-22 . But the use of various statistical analysis in are not explore in depth. The work presented in this paper compares and analyze the ideal operating time to the actual operating time of various equipments in the production line. Within the work, a diesel infusion pump fabricating unit in India is the test location considered. The operation of Camplate Process Line in the plant is investigated. The collected data from various installed meters are analyzed to find anomalous operatin g points in the process line. III. SYSTEM DETAILS Camplate Process Line A cam is a turning or drifting piece in a mechanical linkage utilized particularly in changing rotating movement into straight movement. It is frequently a portion of a pivoting wheel (e.g. an eccentric wheel) or shaft (e.g. a barrel with an sporadic shape) that beats a lever at one or more focuses on its circular way. In camplate process, raw camplate from foundry are reformed to finished camplate through eight distinct processes as shown in Fig. 1. This figure describes the process line, all the components in the process line, the function of each components, the ideal operating time of equipments and their rating. The major components include: 1. Kadia employed for honing the raw camplate. It is an acerbic machining process by which precision surface is developed on the raw camplate by rubbing9. an casuistic material against it along a controlled path 2. Jumat employed for grinding the raw camplate 3. ECM employed for grinding off the claw base of the raw camplate 4. MS-19 employed for grinding the can profile 5. Supfina employed for shim face grinding
__label__energy	A novel f ault localization with data refinement for hydroelectric units Jialong Huang1, Junlin Song2, Penglong Lian3, Men gjie Gan4, Zhiheng Su5, Benhao Wang6, Wenji Zhu7, Xiaomin Pu8, Jianxiao Zou9,Shicai Fan Abstract Due to the scarcity of fault samples and the complexity of non -linear and non -smooth characteristics data in hydroelectric units, most of the traditional hydroelectric unit fault localization methods are difficult to carry out accurate localization. To add ress these problems, a sparse autoencoder (SAE) -generative adversarial network (GAN) -wavelet noise reduction (WNR) - manifold -boosted deep learning (SG -WMBDL) based fault localization method for hydroelectric units is proposed. To overcome the data scarcity, a SAE is embedded into the GAN to generate more high -quality samples in the data generation module. Considering the signals involving non -linear and non -smooth characteristics, the improved WNR which combining both soft and hard thresholding and local lin ear embedding (LLE) are utilized to the data preprocessing module in order to reduce the noise and effectively capture the local features. In addition, to seek higher performance, the novel Adaptive Boost (AdaBoost) combined with multi deep learning is pro posed to achieve accurate fault localization. The experimental results show that the SG -WMBDL can locate faults for hydroelectric unit s under a small number of fault samples with non -linear and non -smooth characteristics on higher precision and accuracy co mpared to other frontier methods, which verifies the effectiveness and practicality of the proposed method. Index Terms Fault localization , SAE, GAN , WNR, Deep learning , LLE, AdaBoost I. INTRODUCTION Hydroelectric unit is the key part of hydroelectric power generation, once the hydroelectric unit fail s, it may lead to the paralysis of the whole power generating machine, and even irreversible disaster, so efficient and accurate methods of fault localization are particularly essential. Fault localization for hydroelectric uni t plays an important role in the operation and maintenance which can reduce or eliminate the accident. It is of primary importance to provide the powerful methodology for the fault localization of hydroel ectric unit not only of systems but also of data available 1 . There are two main difficulties in locating faults in hydroelectric units: Firstly , the fault data of hydroelectric unit s are usually scarce. Due to the low frequency of faults in hydroelectric unit s and the high cost of fault data collection and labeling, the number of available fault samples is limited, which is not enough to support the training and testing of effective fault localization models . To solve the problem of scarce fault data in fault diagnosis , few-shot learning (FSL) has been introduced to this area in recent years . The core issue of FSL is the unreliable Jialong Huang1, Men gjie Gan4, Benhao Wang6, Jianxiao Zou9and Shicai Fan are with Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Studies, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China , Shenzhen , Guangdong, China 518000. Penglong Lian3, Zhiheng Su5 and Shicai Fan are with School of Automation Engineering, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, Sichuan, China 611731. Corresponding author (Email: shicaifan uestc.edu.cn ). empirical risk minimizer that makes FSL hard to learn 2 . Commonly used data augmentation models for small samples are GAN 3 - 4 , meta-learning 5 - 6 , and a combination of both 7 . Secondly, the fault data of hydroelectric units show nonlinearity and complexity. Characterization informa tion of hydroelectric units is very important in the fault localization process. Currently, traditional methods for non-linear and non- smooth signal characteristics include those based on time and frequency domains 8 - 10 , those based on the combination of frequency domain analysis and entropy theory 11 - 12 . However, since non -linear and non -smooth signals may contain complex dynamics, such traditional methods may involve complex calculations, which may affect their real -time performance. As deep learning has been maturing in recent years, there has been a surge in the number of applications of this method for fault localization such as the combination of deep learning algorithms and frequency domain analysis 13 - 14 . While deep learning captures the inherent characteristics of nonlinear and non -stationary signals better than traditional methods, it still requires a large amount of data to build accurate fault localization models. In addition, there are also applications in th is field through ensemble learnin g 15 - 16 , which can reduce the risk of overfitting a single model on training data by combining multiple models . However, due to the simplicity of the models and algorithms, the stability and accuracy depend on the mod el being integrated. Combining the respective advantages mentioned above , in this paper, SG-WMBDL is proposed for fault localization of hydroelectric units . The SG-WMBDL includes three modules : data generation module and data preprocessing module and data localization module . Fault data generation module based on SAE a nd GAN model is proposed to connect the encoding part of SAE to the input of the generator and the decoding part of SAE to the output of the generator as an embedded mechanism embedded in an imp roved GAN network, which can effectively alleviate the problem of scarcity of fault data. Fault data preprocessing module based on improved wavelet noise reduction combining soft and hard thresholding and LLE method of manifold learning is effectiv e noise reducti on and dimensionality reduction of data. Fault localization module based on AdaBoost algorithm using dynamically adjusted weights ba sed on category distribution combined with CNN, FCN deep learning can localize hydroelectric unit s effectively and perform further positive than pervious fault localization method. The main contributions and innovations of this paper are: (1) This paper constr ucts a novel data generation module based on SAE and GAN that can effectively address the problem of scarcity of fault data . (2) This paper proposes an improved wavelet noise reduction combining soft and hard thresholding and LLE metho d that can reduce the noise and
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Energy Storage as Public Asset Jiasheng Zhang, Nan Gu, and Chenye Wu Abstract Energy storage has exhibited great potential in providing exibility in power system to meet critical peak demand and thus reduce the overall genera- tion cost, which in turn stabilizes the electricity prices. In this work, we exploit the opportunities for the independent system operator (ISO) to in- vest and manage storage as public asset, which could systematically provide bene ts to the public. Assuming a quadratic generation cost structure, we apply parametric analysis to investigate the ISO s problem of economic dis- patch, given variant quantities of storage investment. This investment is bene cial to users on expectation. However, it may not necessarily bene t everyone. We adopt the notion of marginal system cost impact (MCI) to measure each user s welfare and show its relationship with the conventional locational marginal price. We nd interesting convergent characteristics for MCI. Furthermore, we perform k-means clustering to classify users for ef- fective user pro ling and conduct numerical studies on both prototype and IEEE test systems to verify our theoretical conclusions. Keywords: Energy Storage, Optimization, Parametric Analysis, Locational Marginal Price, Power Networks, Electricity Market 1. Introduction One of the key bottlenecks in improving the e ectiveness of electricity sectors is the limited exibility in the power system, which leads to the limited uidity in the market. Fortunately, over the past few decades, technological improvements together with the scale of economy have signi cantly reduced the cost of various types of storage systems, and this trend is projected to continue in next years (as shown in Figure 1). The storage system, if widely deployed, can provide the urgently needed exibility to the power system, which will dramatically relieve the pressure in electricity market design. For example, it can relieve the critical peak in the system 1 , and Preprint submitted to ACM e-Energy 2020 May 5, 2020arXiv:2005.01402v1 eess.SY 4 May 2020 Figure 1: Projected Diminishing Marginal Costs for Variant Storage Technologies 3 . mitigate too much uncertainties brought by the renewables 2 . These and other services that storage system provides to the grid can bene t both the system operator (the system as a whole) as well as individual consumers. While most researches focus on incentivizing individual storage owners to provide services to the grid, we consider an alternative to view the storage as public asset. In essence, widely deployed storage system, just as most publicly-owned infrastructures in the grid, requires huge investment, yet it can generate comparable economic value with potential long-term returns. However, the large-scale deployment of storage could pose new challenges to the electricity market design. The major di culty is exactly due to the large- scale deployment. In this case, storage systems can no longer be viewed as price-takers and will have a major impact on the current locational marginal price (LMP) scheme. At rst glance, one may believe the storage system could help reduce the electricity bills for all users. This intuition is wrong. The truth is that the storage system could only help reduce the average electricity price over time and across all the locations. This smoothing e ect will of course bene t some market participants but make other participants 2 worse-o . In this paper, we exploit how the integration of storage system will change the de nition of conventional LMP, which serves as the basis for us to understand users in terms of their potential bene ts. This also allows us to conduct k-means clustering to better distinguish heterogeneous users in the new market conditions. Moreover, we characterize the smoothing e ect rigorously by examining the global convergence of the LMP scheme as storage capacity increases. We could in turn reason the dynamics of individual electricity bills as the total storage capacity in the grid increases. We respectively highlight the impacts of publicly owned storage in two models: electricity pool model and network constrained model. The results of the former case can be applied in the micro- grid scenario and the latter emphasizes the e ects of grid interchanges. 1.1. Related Works Our work roots in two research lines: the electricity storage control frame- work design and the pricing mechanism investigation in electricity market. While storage control framework design has been well investigated, most researches either focus on individually owned storage control policy design (e.g., to conduct arbitrage against Time-of-Use (ToU) prices, or real time prices) or consider a central control framework in various electricity operation processes. For example, Tang et al. discuss the dispatch game between independent system operator (ISO) and generator-owned storage in 4 . Bose et al. show the variability and the locational marginal value of generator- owned energy storage in 5 . Mohsenian-Rad et al. propose a framework to coordinate the investor-owned storage facilities in power system in 6 . Cui et al. further the research by considering wind power integration in 7 . In 8 , Lakshminarayana et al. devise an operation schedule to centrally coordinate multiple storage devices. Qin et al. design an algorithm to use storage to mitigate the uncertainties brought by renewables in 9 . Grillo et al. employ a Markov decision process to determine the optimal storage scheduling policy with time-varying renewable generation in 10 . Wang et al.propose a dynamic programming algorithm for storage users arbitrage scheme against multi-peaked ToU pricing in 11 . Xu et al. present an optimal look-ahead storage control policy for arbitrage based on Lagrangian multipliers in 12 . Di erent from this line of research, we consider the storage system as public asset and examine both its value to the system operator and its bene t to individual market participants (through LMP analysis). Speci cally, we use parametric analysis to exploit the value of storage. This 3 technique has been utilized to understand the relationship between ramping capacities and overall generation cost in 13 . Parametric convex quadratic optimization is discussed in detail in 14 , 15 . The pricing mechanism for the electricity sector
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	A General Framework for Load Forecasting based on Pre-trained Large Language Model Mingyang Gaoa, Suyang Zhoua, Wei Gua, Zhi Wua, Haiquan Liua, Aihua Zhoub aSoutheast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China bChina Electric Power Research Institute, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China Abstract Accurate load forecasting is crucial for maintaining the power balance between generators and consumers, particularly with the increasing integration of renewable energy sources, which introduce significant intermit- tent volatility. With the advancement of data-driven methods, machine learning and deep learning models have become the predominant approaches for load forecasting tasks. In recent years, pre-trained large lan- guage models (LLMs) have achieved significant progress, demonstrating superior performance across various fields. This paper proposes a load forecasting method based on LLMs, offering not only precise predictive capabilities but also broad and flexible applicability. Additionally, a data modeling method is introduced to effectively transform load sequence data into natural language suitable for LLM training. Furthermore, a data enhancement strategy is designed to mitigate the impact of LLM hallucinations on forecasting results. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated using two real-world datasets. Compared to existing methods, our approach demonstrates state-of-the-art performance across all validation metrics. Keywords: Load forecasting, pre-trained language model, deep learning 1. Introduction 1.1. Motivation Load forecasting has been playing an important role in maintaining the stability of the modern power system 1, 2 . With accurate forecasting, the power system can optimize the integration of variable re- newable energy sources 3, 4 . As the advancement of data-driven algorithms, machine learning and deep learning-based methods have become the predominant approaches for load forecasting tasks, owing to their exceptional performance 5 . More recently, large language models (LLMs) have emerged, demonstrating strong accuracy and flexi- bility across various research in natural language process (NLP) tasks 6, 7 . The attention mechanism in LLMs models have been proven to be effective in capturing the long-range dependencies in time series data, which is beneficial for load forecasting tasks 8 . However, there is currently no research utilizing LLMs for load forecasting tasks. The challenge lies in effectively considering the characteristics of electrical loads in conjunction with the superior knowledge comprehension and reasoning capabilities of LLMs to enhance the accuracy and reliability of predictions. This remains a promising issue that requires further investigation. 1.2. Literature Review Load forecasting is a task within the domain of time series forecasting, and various networks have been continuously adapted to promote the prediction accuracy, such as eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) 9 , Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) 10 and Transformers 11 . Notably, the Transformer architecture and its subsequent variants have demonstrated superior performance. Informer 12 proposes the Prob- Sparse self-attention mechanism, which reduces time complexity while maintaining performance. It employs self-attention distilling to manage long input sequences effectively. Autoformer 13 introduces an auto- correlation mechanism by utilizing the pre-processing convention of series decomposition, transforming it Preprint submitted to Elsevier September 4, 2024arXiv:2406.11336v2 eess.SY 3 Sep 2024 into a fundamental component within models. Fedformer 14 introduces an approach that integrates Trans- former models with seasonal-trend decomposition techniques and leverage the typically sparse representation of time series data in the Fourier transform. Additionally, in DLinear 15 , researchers argue that accuracy is not primarily determined by the network architecture. Instead, the decomposition and processing of data significantly enhance the accuracy of the predictive models. By employing a simple fully-connected network with decomposition techniques , they are able to achieve similarly satisfactory prediction accuracy. Consequently, beyond the model itself, the quality and distribution of data used for training above models also make a difference to the forecasting accuracy. To ensure the model performs optimally on general task, data modeling and feature engineering strategies designed for specific model are often proposed at the same time 16 . Reference 17 adapts a XGBoost-based scheme for electricity load forecasting through increasing number of features available and converting daily electricity load information into weekly load information. In 18, 19 , a residential load forecasting framework based on the LSTM is described with an customer-wise level data analysis. Some ongoing research are already applying LLMs on time series forecasting tasks and obtain competitive forecasting results. Reference 20 introduces a prompt-based learning paradigm for time series forecasting based on LLMs and shows superior performance across three distinct scenarios. However, data missing is observed during the prediction process. This issue arises from the hallucination problem inherent in LLMs 21, 22 . In load forecasting tasks, the hallucination may lead to extremely inaccurate predictions or missing values in the output sequence, but there is few research on how to effectively solve the problem. Reference 23 also employs LLMs as the predictor, but they keeps the parameter of LLMs static and completes the training by updating the forward reprogramming layer. Reference 24 leverages the reasoning ability of LLMs for accurate wind speed forecasting with spatio-temporal information. 1.3. Contributions and Paper Organization In order to resolve the above deficiencies, this paper proposes a load forecasting framework based on pre-trained LLMs, leveraging its flexibility and generalizability to achieve more accurate results on multi- time-scale and multi-scenario datasets. Also, the paper introduces a dataset modeling method that enables LLMs to perform effectively. The specific contributions of this research are as follows: 1. We propose a general and flexible load forecasting method based on pre-trained LLMs. The proposed method can be applied to multi-timescale and multi-scenario load forecasting tasks. 2. A dataset formulation method that combine language with statistical information is introduced to better leverage the predictive capabilities of LLMs. 3. A data enhancement method is devised for solving the hallucination problems of LLMs by separating numerical sequence with language descriptions. 4. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated across open-sources and real-world load fore- casting datasets with different time scales. Compared with existing load forecasting methods, the superiority and adaptability of the proposed framework is clearly proved. The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 outlines the dataset modeling approach for load forecasting tasks utilizing pre-trained LLMs. Section 3 details the proposed load
__label__energy	Page 1 of 7 A Universal Controller for Grid -Tied Inverters Fariba Fateh , Senior Member of IEEE , e-mail: fateh ksu.edu Abstract: This paper presents the development of Control -Sync, a novel firmware for universal inverters in microgrids, designed to enhance grid stability and flexibility. As hybrid PV -battery systems become increasingly prevalent, there is a critical need for inverters capable of efficiently transitioning between grid -forming (GFM) and grid -followi ng (GFL) modes. Our firmware introduces dual control paths that allow for seamless transitions without reliance on external control devices, reducing communication overhead and increasing operational reliability. Key features include direct phase -angle det ection and frequency restoration capabilities, essential for managing asymmetrical power grids and dynamic load changes. The efficacy of Control -Sync is demonstrated through rigorous testing with grid emulators and multi -phase inverters, confirming its pot ential to improve microgrid reliability and efficiency. This study offers a scalable solution to enhance inverter adaptability in various grid conditions, fostering a more resilient energy infrastructure. Introduction: According to global estimates, the ma rket for PV inverters is expected to experience a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of approximately 5.8 from 2022 to 2030. Based on this projection, it is predicted that the market size will reach 17.9 billion by the year 2030 1 . Also, hybrid PV -battery systems will become a part of residential, commercial, and public buildings along with the rapid expansion of EV market. On the other hand, many experts believe that one essential step toward an energy -efficient world lies in using wide -bandgap (WBG) p ower semiconductor devices. The technology of WBG devices, such as SiC -MOSFETs and GaN transistors, has significantly enhanced in recent years, with global growth of CAGR 35.12 from 2021 to 2026 2 . The adoption of SiC -MOSFETs and GaN transistors in inv erters is anticipated to enhance their performance, increase power density, and contribute to overall improvements in the reliability and efficiency of PV systems. Reliable access to electricity is at risk due to extreme weather events and cyberattacks. In order to ensure that hybrid PV -battery systems can be dependable sources of power, their inverters need to have the ability to function in two modes: grid -following (GFL) and grid -forming (GFM). When operating in GFL mode, the inverters track the grid vol tage and generate a PWM reference signal to regulate the active and reactive power that is fed into the utility grid 3 , 4 . Inverters in GFM mode, internally generates PWM reference signal, can form a microgrid and regulate the node voltages in cooperat ion with other power sources to supply the local load. Herein, a microgrid refers to a subdivision or a building that can operate off -grid after disruptive events. The cooperation between power generation units can be achieved by a decentralized or central ized control scheme. If a droop -based decentralized control scheme is implemented, the system frequency can deviate from its nominal value after any load change . In contrast, a centralized supervisory control scheme requires a communication network, which increases the overall cost and risk of cyberattacks and thus compromises system reliability. A WBG -based universal inverter is an attractive option for hybrid PV -battery systems capable of operating off the utility grid. The universal inverter can seamless ly switch between GFL and GFM modes, stay synced with other power generation units, and contribute collaboratively to the total load in GFM mode. The universal inverter in an islanded microgrid can cooperatively restore the Page 2 of 7 system s frequency and individua lly restore node voltages without using any communication network. Control -Sync. Method: In this study, we have developed firmware to autonomously and seamlessly generate reference signals for GFM and GFL applications, specifically (θ GFM, V GFM) and (θ GFL, VGFL). The se references are used to implement PWM signals and those are periodically update d, ensuring efficient and accurate performance 5 , 6 , 7 , and 8 . In our research, we successfully developed and implemented a novel control methodology for grid - interactive inverters, which we have named Control -Sync. This method distinguishes itself by utilizing two separate pairs of control paths to manage the voltage amplitude and phase -angle references. Specifically, one pair is designed for grid -forming (GFM) operations, while the other handles grid -following (GFL) operations. At any point, only one of these pairs actively controls the inverter, while the other remains synchronized but inactive in the background. A key innovation of the Control -Sync approach is its ability to keep the inactive control paths perfectly synchronized with those in use. This synchronization allows inverters, such as those in a microgrid setup, to switch between GFM and GFL modes seamlessly 9 , 10 . This tran sition occurs without the need for communication with a synchro -check relay, which typically manages the connection of the microgrid to the utility grid. Our approach eliminates the reliance on such devices, facilitating a smoother operational transition i n both islanded and grid -connected scenarios. Moreover, our research introduces minimalistic control loops within the control -sync method, enhancing the system s efficiency. We also developed communication -free schemes for detecting islanding and grid reconnection, thereby enabling the inverters to operate autonomously within a microgrid environment. The effectiveness of the Control -Sync method was rigorously tested and validated using a sophisticated hardware setup that inc luded two 30-kVA grid emulator s and four 5-kVA, 208 -V Figure 1. Main blocks in the control firmware package for universal inverters. Conventional GFL Controller Droop Based GFM Controller Virtual Inertia Based GFM Controller 𝑣𝑞𝑟 𝑣𝑑𝑟 𝜃𝐺𝐹𝐿 𝑉𝐺𝐹𝐿 Or any other GFM method 𝐾𝑅 𝜃𝐺𝐹𝑀 𝑉𝐺𝐹𝑀 Meas. Calculation Direct Phase Detector Autonomous Reconfigurable Algorithm Frequency and Voltage Restoration Loops Islanding Detection 𝜃𝑟 𝑉𝑟 PWM Generator 𝐷 𝐴 𝐷 𝐴 Synchronization Block 𝛿𝜔, 𝛿𝑉 Page 3 of 7 three -phase inverters. This practical application not only demonstrated the feasibility of our method but also its robustness 5 - 8
__label__energy	Scalable Neural Dynamic Equivalence for Power Systems Qing SHEN 1, Yifan ZHOU1, Huanfeng ZHAO1, Peng ZHANG1, Qiang Zhang2, Slava Maslennikov2, Xiaochuan Luo2 1. Stony Brook University 2. ISO New England Qing.shen stonybrook.edu SUMMARY Traditional grid analytics are model -based, relying strongly on accurate models of power systems, especially the dynamic models of generators, controllers, loads and other dynamic components . However, acquiring thorough power system model s can be impractical in real opera tion due to inaccessible system parameters and the privacy of consumers, which necessitate data -driven dynamic equivalencing of unknown subsystems . Learning reliable dynamic equivalent models for the external systems from SCADA and PMU data , however, is a long -standing intractable problem in power system analysis due to complicated nonlinearity and un foreseeable dynamic modes of power systems. This necessitates dynamic equivalencing for unknown subsystems, which employs physics -informed machine learning and neu ral ordinary differential equations (ODE -NET) to preserve dynamic behaviors post -disturbances. The new contributions are threefold: A NeuDyE formulation to enable a continuous -time, data -driven dynamic equivalence of power systems, saving the effort and expense of acquiring inaccessible system details . An introduction of a Physics -Informed NeuDyE learning (PI -NeuDyE) to actively control the closed -loop accuracy of NeuDyE . Driving Port NeuDyE (DP -NeuDyE), a practical application of NeuDyE, reducing the num ber of inputs required for training. Extensive case studies on the NPCC system validate the generalizability and accuracy of both PI - NeuDyE and DP -NeuDyE . These exhaustive analyses span a multitude of scenarios, differing in the time required for fault clearance, the specific fault locations, and the limitations imposed by the accessibility of only a small subset of data. Test results have demonstrated the scalability and practicality of NeuDyE, showing its potential to be used in ISO and utility control centers for online transient stability analysis and for planning purposes. KEYWORDS Neural d ynamic equivalence, ODE -NET , physics -informed machine learning, model order reduction , driving port. Here your Paper ID 5 numbers Full Name of Study Committee example A2 Power transformers and reactors Preferential Subject - example PS1 Design of resilient transformers Information available from your National Committee and in the emails sent to your att . delete before publication. 2024 Paris Session 1 1. INTRODUCTION Reliable discovery of dynamic equivalent models for unidentified subsystems , specifically external systems , is crucial to ensur e reliable operations of large -scale interconnected transmission systems 1 . However, this task has been a longstanding challenge due to the existence of nonlinear dynamics, complex coherency characteristics, and unavailable component models in power systems 2 3 . Recent advancements in Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) provide an opportunity to readily obtain rich history of high -data-rate measurements, which fostered the development of data -driven dynamic equivalence 4 . While the utilization of neural networks i nto power systems is not a new concept 5 , 6 , their application in power system dynamic equivalence remains an evolving area of research 7 8 . Early investigations primarily concentrated on the direct application of neural networks in power system ana lysis 9 10 , or to use deep learning methods to unveil power system dynamics. Distinguished from other methods, Physics -Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) are engineered to directly leverage physical knowledge to assist the training procedure 11 . Despite various attempts being reported in the literature , significant challenges persist . First, learning continuous -time dynamic behaviors using discrete -time measurements poses a considerable obstacle. Traditional discretization techniques may not fully capture the intricacies of the continuous dynamics, leading to large inaccuracies that limit its practical implementations. Second, achieving robust and stable closed -loop operations under diverse operating conditions and disturbances is essential fo r safe plug -and-play integration of dynamic equivalence. Finally, minimizing the required measurements to ensure a feasible and practical implementation poses a challenge. This research makes three significant contributions to address the aforementione d challenges : Formulation of Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) -Net-enabled Dynamic Equivalence (NeuDyE ): This approach leverages ODEs and neural networks to model the system dynamics accurately, providing a continuous -time, data -driven representation that aligns with the actual behavior of power grids. Introduction of Physics -Informed Neural Dynamic Equivalence ( PI-NeuDyE) : It combines an ODE -NET-enabled equivalent model with physics -informed learning to identify a continuous -time dynamic equivalenc e while ensuring a close match in the closed -loop dynamic behaviors under disturbances. Implementation of a Driving Port NeuDyE (DP -NeuDyE): It reduces the number of inputs required for training, making it more manageable and cost -effective to deploy in real-world interconnected bulk power systems. Its generalization ability is also explored based on electrical distance. This article is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces the mathematical basis of NeuDyE, i.e., how to formulate and simulate a pow er system with subsystems modeled by neural dynamic equivalence. Section 3 explains the key technology of PI-NeuDyE , which is to use Neural -Ordinary - Differential -Equation -Network (ODE -NET) to discover the dynamic equivalence of power systems . Section 4 introduces a variant of NeuDyE called DP -NeuDyE to further trim the features needed. Section 5 presents extensive case studies on the 140 -bus NPCC system 12 . The results demonstrate the effectiveness of NeuDyE and its capability to handle various conting encies . Section 6 discusses the trade -off between the two methods and states the conclusion . 2. PROBLEM FORMULATION For a reliability coordinator (RC), t he entire interconnection can be partitioned into an internal system (InSys) and an external system (ExSys). An RC usually has both accurate dynamic models and real - time observability for InSys, but not ExSys. In reality, there may be a cushion area where the RC has partial observability; however, in this paper, we consider it part of the ExSys as well. Take the 140 -bus NPCC system as an example, InSys and ExSys, connected through two tie lines 13 , are illustrated in Figure 1.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Real-time equation-of-motion CC cumulant and CC Green s function simulations of photoemission spectra of water and water dimer Fernando D. Vila and John J. Rehr Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 98195, United States of America Himadri Pathak, Bo Peng, Ajay Panyala, Erdal Mutlu, Nicholas P. Bauman, and Karol Kowalskiy Physical and Computational Sciences Directorate, Paci c Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, Washington 99354, United States of America (Dated: May 31, 2022) Newly developed coupled-cluster (CC) methods enable simulations of ionization potentials and spectral functions of molecular systems in a wide range of energy scales ranging from core-binding to valence. This paper discusses results obtained with the real-time equation-of-motion CC cumulant approach (RT-EOM-CC), and CC Green s function (CCGF) approaches in applications to the water and water dimer molecules. We compare the ionization potentials obtained with these methods for the valence region with the results obtained with the CCSD(T) formulation as a di erence of energies forNandN 1 electron systems. All methods show good agreement with each other. They also agree well with experiment, with errors usually below 0.1 eV for the ionization potentials. We also analyze unique features of the spectral functions, associated with the position of satellite peaks, obtained with the RT-EOM-CC and CCGF methods employing single and double excitations, as a function of the monomer OH bond length and the proton transfer coordinate in the dimer. Finally, we analyze the impact of the basis set e ects on the quality of calculated ionization potentials and nd that the basis set e ects are less pronounced for the augmented-type sets. I. INTRODUCTION Coupled-cluster (CC) theory 1 7 has evolved into one of the most accurate formulations to capture complex correlation e ects de ning a broad class of quantum ef- fects that drive chemical transformations, usually identi- ed with bond-forming and bond-breaking processes. 7, 8 Over the last few decades, theoretical e orts closely fol- lowed by the development of sophisticated computational models that take advantage of the ever-growing compu- tational power of parallel architectures, enabled the es- tablishment of a hierarchy of approximations and novel formulations for closed open-shell molecules, strong cor- relation, and large-scale systems. Special attention has been paid to single-reference CC formulations that can adequately describe chemical reactions and topological events of the corresponding ground-state potential en- ergy surfaces, including barriers, avoided crossings, and multiple minima. This e ort includes an impressive ar- ray of formulations based on the inclusion of high-rank collective e ects contributing to the expansion of the ground-state wave function. This progress was made possible to achieve thanks to cornerstone implementa- tions of the now ubiquitous models such as CCSD, 5 CCSDT, 9 11 CCSDTQ 12, 13 and their perturbative counterparts, including CCSD T , 14, 15 CCSD(T), 16 CCSD(TQ) and CCSDT(Q) type approaches. 17, 18 For its simplicity, the CCSD(T) method has assumed a unique position in high-accuracy chemical simulations fdv uw.edu ykarol.kowalski pnnl.govof equilibrium properties and chemical reactions. How- ever, a signi cant e ort has been expended to alleviate serious issues associated with the perturbative nature of the (T) for molecular con gurations away from the equi- librium geometry. 19 29 Di erent design principles drive a large class of these developments in perturbative and non-perturbative formulations. Structural changes in molecular systems such as bond- breaking forming can be characterized by analyzing their potential energy surface (PES) or scrutinizing pro- cesses states in various energy regimes sensitive to the geometry changes induced by chemical transformations. Excited state extensions of CC formalism play an es- sential role in these studies either through equation- of-motion CC methodologies (EOMCC) 30 32 or CC linear response theory (LR-CC), 33, 34 which are usu- ally formulated in frequency space. These methods have been widely applied in studies of excitation en- ergies, excited-state PESs, excited-state non-adiabatic dynamics, frequency-dependent optical properties, and, more recently, multi-component polaritonic systems. 35 Green s function extensions of the CC formalism (CCGF) 36 47 can also capture excited-state correlation ef- fects needed to describe quasiparticles (QP) and satellite peaks observed in X-ray photoemission spectra (XPS). It is worth mentioning that the development of the CC methods for the description of satellite peaks was paral- leled by enabling vertex corrected GW approaches 48 and adaptive sampling con guration interaction (ASCI) algorithms 49 capable of attaining high accuracy in de- scribing multi-con gurational electronic states for rela- tively little computational cost. Time-dependent CC formulations, which provide an al- ternative way of describing excited-state processes, havearXiv:2205.14179v1 physics.chem-ph 27 May 2022 2 attracted signi cant attention in the last decade. 50 56 In this context, we have recently developed a real-time equation-of-motion CC (RT-EOM-CC) method 57 60 to compute the one-electron GF based on a CCSD cumu- lant approach, which provides several advantages com- pared to other excited-state formulations. For example, the approach leads to an explicit exponential cumulant representation of the Green s function 61 and, at the same time, allows one to formulate a non-perturbative expression for the cumulant in terms of the solutions to a set of coupled, rst-order nonlinear di erential equations for the CC amplitudes. Additionally, the RT-EOM-CC formulation provides a theoretical platform for including nonlinear corrections to the traditional cumulant approx- imations, which are usually linear in the self-energy. In this paper, we compare the performance of the CCGF and RT-EOM-CC formulations when applied to core and valence binding energies of the water and wa- ter dimer molecules. In particular, we focus our analysis on identifying unique features of spectral functions, i.e., the location of quasiparticle and satellite peaks (for core and valence regions) as functions of geometry changes in bond-breaking processes. In this regard, we focus on the O-H stretch in H 2O and the bridging proton transfer pro- cess in (H 2O)2. We demonstrate that the impact of the geometry changes is especially strong for the satellite re- gion of the core spectral function. We also investigate the e ect of basis set e ects on the accuracies of ionization potentials obtained with the
__label__energy	1 Resilience of Energy Infrastructure and Services: Modeling, Data Analytics and Metrics Chuanyi Ji, Yun Wei, and H. Vincent Poor Abstract Large scale power failures induced by severe weather have become frequent and damaging in recent years, causing millions of people to be without electricity service for days. Although the power industry has been battling weather- induced failures for years, it is largely unknown how resilient the energy infrastructure and services really are to severe weather disruptions. What fundamental issues govern the resilience? Can advanced approaches such as modeling and data analytics help industry to go beyond empirical methods? This paper discusses the research to date and open issues related to these questions. The focus is on identifying fundamental challenges and advanced approaches for quantifying resilience. In particular, a ﬁrst aspect of this problem is how to model large-scale failures, recoveries and impacts, involving the infrastructure, service providers, customers, and weather. A second aspect is how to identify generic vulnerability (i.e., non-resilience) in the infrastructure and services through large-scale data analytics. And, a third is to understand what resilience metrics are needed and how to develop them. Index Terms Power distribution infrastructure, services to customers, failure, recovery, non-stationary spatiotemporal mod- els, data analytics, resilience metrics. I. I NTRODUCTION Severe weather events such as storms, ﬂooding and ex- treme temperatures have been occurring across the United States and the world in recent years, increasingly threatening places where large populations and economic activities are heavily concentrated 1 4 . Among the most affected are the energy infrastructure and services to customers, where weather-induced failures have affected millions of people for days 2 , 5 , 6 . In response to these disruptions, nation-wide efforts have been initiated on resilience 2 , 4 , 6 8 . Here resilience refers to the ability to reduce failures under external disruptions and to recover rapidly once failures occur 2 , 4 , 8 . However, as pointed out by the taskforce report 8 , the current understanding of resilience is limited for the power infrastructure under severe weather. It is largely unknown how resilient our infrastructure really is to severe weather 2 . In fact, the problem is not just about ﬁxing the physical infras- tructure. Services (i.e., electricity supplies to customers) are This paper was submitted. This paper was prepared in part under the support of the U. S. National Science Foundation under Grants CMMI-1435778 and ECCS-1549881, and New York State Energy Research Development Authority. Chuanyi Ji and Yun Wei are with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, 30332 USA. E- mail: jichuanyi gatech.edu, yunwei gatech.edu. H. Vincent Poor is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Princeton University, New Jersey, 08544, USA. E-mail: poor princeton.edu. Manuscript received ; revised .pertinent that involve users, service providers (i.e., distribution system operators, or DSOs) and policy makers 9 . This paper discusses research to date and challenges on resilience. The focus is on how to quantify resilience of the energy infrastructure and services to customers. Here the infrastructure refers to power distribution grids that deliver electricity directly to users. Power distribution grids are found particularly vulnerable to severe weather disruptions, where 90 of failures have occurred 4 . Furthermore, the current power distribution infrastructure is not yet fully equipped with the state-of-art technologies for efﬁcient monitoring and protection 10 12 . Services at power distribution grids that involve a large number of customers in disjoint service regions managed by disparate distribution system operators and regulators are particularly challenging. A severe weather event can have a wide geographical span. For example, Super Storm Sandy affected eight million customers in 21 DSO service regions in the United States. In the face of these issues, quantifying resilience remains a challenging problem, involving both infrastructure and services 2 , 9 , 13 15 . Notably, resilience centers on complex and interacting networks involving weather, the power distribution infras- tructure, and a community of customers, service providers and policy makers 2 , 4 . The failure aspect of resilience relates to the interactions between the physical infrastructure and weather. The recovery aspect relates mainly to services. Services depend on complex factors, not only the infrastructure but also DSOs, customers and policies. Both aspects require advanced modeling to incorporate a large number of dependent variables, and data analysis to gain knowledge about what determines resilience. Thus resilience involves a multitude of complex factors from weather to the physical infrastructure, customers, services providers and policy makers. These issues call for not only new thinking and actions from industry but also research that can address fundamental problems underlying the challenges. We identify three technical challenges within this context. A ﬁrst challenge is how to model complex interactions among weather, failures at the infrastructure, and recoveries by service providers governed by policies. Mathematical models are needed to describe these important factors, from a large num- ber of local and dependent failures and recoveries, to customer responses and weather 9 , 14 , 16 , 17 . Meanwhile, it is pertinent to incorporate multiple spatiotemporal scales in these models that span a distribution system locally to service areas regionally 9 , 14 , 16 . A second challenge is the development of data analytics that can learn how resilient the infrastructure and services really are from measurements. ThearXiv:1611.06914v1 cs.SY 21 Nov 2016 2 Fig. 1: Illustration of three inter-related challenges. power industry has been collecting data on failures and restora- tion. Such data can potentially be turned into knowledge to guide resilience enhancement. A challenge is the availability of detailed data at a large scale across service territories. Detailed data are owned by DSOs. Large-scale data studies thus call for active participation of DSOs and policy makers. Here, we describe the granularity, scale, paucity and inaccuracy of ex- isting data, from which we learn what new information should be collected. Furthermore, data analytics, although at an early stage for resilience, suggests what knowledge can be learned from the available measurements.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Optimal Utilization Strategy of the LiFePO 4Battery Storage Timur Sayfutdinova,b, , Petr Vorobeva aCenter for Energy Science and Technology, Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, 3 Nobel Street, Skolkovo, Moscow Region 121205, Russia bSchool of Engineering, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom Abstract The paper provides a comprehensive battery storage modelling approach, which accounts for operation- and degradation-aware characteristics and can be used in optimization problem formulations. Particularly, Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) compatible models have been developed for the lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO 4) battery storage using the Special Or- der Sets 2 to represent the nonlinear characteristics, including e ciency, internal resistance growth, and capacity fade. Such formulation can be used in problems related to various applications, i.e., power systems, smart grid, and vehicular applications, and it allows nding the globally optimal solution using o -the-shelf academic and commercial solvers. In the numerical study, the proposed modelling approach has been applied to realistic scenarios of peak-shaving, where the importance of considering the developed models is explicitly demonstrated. Operation- and degradation-aware techno-economic analysis showed that the optimal battery capacity is driven by operating rather than service requirements. Particularly, a considerable battery over- sizing becomes economically feasible when the battery storage is used more extensively. Another nding suggests that to achieve the maximum value from battery storage, its operation strategy needs to be signi cantly modi- ed during the course of its lifetime. In the scenarios considered, the charging time gradually increased from four to seven hours, while the average SoC de- creased by 20 . Such an adaptable scheduling results in reduced battery degradation and a longer lifetime, which may provide as much as 12.1 of savings in the battery storage system project. t.saifutdinov newcastle.ac.uk Preprint submitted to Applied Energy March 16, 2022arXiv:2101.11659v2 eess.SY 15 Mar 2022 Keywords: Battery degradation, Lithium-ion battery, Mixed-integer linear programming, Optimal scheduling, Optimal sizing, Peak-shaving, Techno-economic analysis 1. Introduction Nowadays, energy storage systems have established their e cacy for more than a dozen power system applications, which cover all stages in the en- ergy supply chain: bulk power and energy; ancillary services; transmission and distribution infrastructure applications; customer energy management 1 . In its turn, the electri cation of transport heavily relies on the develop- ments in storage technologies. Among all storage technologies used in power systems and transportation, lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries are the fastest- growing 2 . In either application, optimal (or near-optimal) utilization of batteries is ensured by thorough planning and scheduling. Notably, online scheduling of battery storage is implemented by an energy management sys- tem, which produces optimal dispatch signals based on the operation require- ments and current battery state, where the latter is estimated using various online functions, e.g., battery cells consistency evaluation 3 , battery ag- ing assessment 4 , and open-circuit voltage reconstruction 5 . In its turn, the planning process implies performing a techno-economic analysis prior to battery installation, which is usually done employing various optimization methods 6 . The result of such an analysis is typically an optimal choice for storage unit siting, sizing, and technology selection, as well as the opti- mal charge discharge scheduling, i.e., operation strategy. To ensure informed decision making, both planning and scheduling tasks require operation- and degradation-aware battery modelling, which is provided in the present paper. In early optimization problem formulations, such as in 7, 8 , constant e ciency for charge and discharge were considered when modelling battery behavior. In practice, e ciency is a function of the battery output cur- rent and also the battery state parameters, which include internal resistance and open-circuit voltage, that change signi cantly with the battery State of Charge (SoC), temperature, and State of Health (SoH) 9 . For instance, it was shown in 10 that charge and discharge e ciencies may vary signi cantly - they can drop as much as 33 from their maximum values depending on the battery operating conditions. To account for the in uence of power output and SoC on battery e ciency, 11 proposed a second-order polynomial for- mulation, which can be considered within the convex programming approach. 2 Then, a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) compatible representa- tion of the Li-ion battery has been proposed in 12 , where e ciency was modelled using a piece-wise linear approximation of the simulated sample data. As an e cient alternative, 10 proposed a Linear Programming (LP) framework to account for e ciency based on the equivalent circuit model while still considering the MILP formulation in 12 as a benchmark. While focusing on a more accurate representation of battery e ciency, the above-mentioned references did not account for an operation-aware life- time and, most importantly, for the available energy capacity of the Li-ion battery storage, which decreases gradually over its lifetime due to degrada- tion. The very rst attempts to represent operation-aware battery lifetime were models based on the total energy throughput, as in 13 . To respect the nonlinear relationship between battery operation strategy, i.e., Depth of Dis- charge (DoD), and its cycle lifetime, 14 approximated the dependency using a piece-wise linear formulation and considered it within a MILP framework for optimal battery sizing problem. Next, in 15 previous approaches were enhanced by incorporating C-rate as an additional factor of battery wear- and-tear. However, the methods above did not account for the inevitable capacity loss of Li-ion batteries over their lifetime, which plays one of the most important roles in the techno-economic analysis of battery storage. Extensive experimental studies in the literature, considered in the next section, suggest that the battery degradation depends in a more compli- cated (often nonlinear) way on a number of factors, such as battery SoC, temperature, DoD, etc. Thus, certain approximations have to be made to account for these e ects when formulating an optimization problem for techno-economical analysis. In early attempt 16 , a constant capacity fade rate of Li-ion battery was introduced for the storage investment problem. Even though the degradation rate was considered to be xed, irrespective of the battery operation,
__label__energy	arXiv:2106.07590v3 eess.SY 28 Apr 2022Decision making under uncertainty for deploying battery storage as a non-wire alternative in distribution networks Marc Barbara, Dharik S. Mallapragadaa, Robert Stonera aMassachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, 02141, MA, U.S.A. Abstract Thegrowingdemandforelectricityinemergingmarketsanddevelopin geconomies (EMDE) is causing loading and congestion problems on distribution net works, particularly in urban locations, that adversely impact sustainable de velopment and economic growth. Electric utilities in these economies face unique con- straints regarding raising capital required to upgrade their conge sted networks. Battery storage has emerged as a non-wire alternative (NWA) to f eeder up- grades. This article presents a ﬂexible valuation framework for bat tery storage use in distribution networks and its application in the context of EMDE distri- bution network planning. We evaluate the value of storage as an NWA using a multi-stage decision making process that combines system optimiza tion with markov-decision processes (MDP) to identify the least-cost netw ork upgrade strategy under demand growth uncertainty. This approach was a pplied to dis- tribution feeders in Delhi, India, and results highlight the cost-eﬀec tiveness of battery storage to manage load growth while deferring network inv estments. Across the low, medium and high battery storage capital cost proj ections for 2030, we estimate that 18 to 29 GWh of battery storage capacity c ould be deployed to defer 11,752 to 15,914 km of medium voltage distribution f eeder lines that are loaded at 60 or more of their ampere capacity in 2030, resulting in 12 to 16 capital cost savings. Interestingly, lowering storage c apital costs does not always lead to increased storage deployment, due to netw ork capacity constraints limiting opportunities for oﬀ-peak storage charging. 1. Introduction Investments in electrical distribution networks tend to be lumpy 1 since they require large capital commitment initially and involve signiﬁcant econom ies of scale because the assets havelong lifetimes (20 to 40 years). Cons equently, long- term distribution network planning is often necessary to identify th e timing and size of investments needed to meet future demand reliably and cost -eﬀectively while maximizing asset utilization. With declining cost of Li-ion battery en ergy storage (referred as battery storage here on), there is growin g interest to con- sider its use as a non-wires alternative (NWA) to defer expensive dis tribution network upgrades and serve rapidly growing peak demand within elec tricity dis- Preprint submitted to Elsevier April 29, 2022 tribution networks. The modularity of battery storage as well as it s ﬂexibility both in terms of location and speed of deployment are in stark contr ast to the attributes of conventional network investments and thus repre sent a potentially valuable option to be considered in network planning. The role for sto rage as a ﬂexible investment option 2 is particularly relevant for loaded urb an distri- bution systems in megacities in fast-growing emerging market and de veloping economy (EMDE) countries, such as Cairo (Egypt), Delhi (India) a nd Jakarta (Indonesia), because of several factors 3, 4 . First, many of th ese cities are experiencing rapid electricity demand growth, due to growing adopt ion of air conditioners (AC) for space cooling 5, 6 that contributes to net work congestion through increasing peak electricity demand 7 . Second, distribution companies inmanyofEMDEcountriesareoftenﬁnanciallyconstrained 8 andha vetocon- tend with relatively high cost of capital to ﬁnance network investme nts. Third, the premium on land use and geographical constraints in some of the se megaci- ties could result in further network investments (reconductoring and upgrading lines) to be operationally challenging or infeasible 9, 10 . Here, we ana lyze the optimal sizing and placement of battery storage and its economic va lue as an NWA at the primary feeder level in urban electricity distribution netw orks of Indian megacities such as Delhi. India s electricity demand is projected to more than double by mid-ce ntury 11 , primarily from increasing electricity use for space cooling in the building s sector and to a lesser extent, by electriﬁcation of transportation 7, 12 . Much of the growth in energy demand is concentrated in megacities like Delhi, wher e 55 of electricity use is residential, which is more than double the national average (24 ) 5 . Distribution companies in Delhi are witnessing a level of grow th in cooling demand that is capable of overloading the network equipmen t - for example, feeder data for 2018 indicates that 28 of feeders were loaded at 60 or more on an ampere capacity basis. As of 2020, Delhi s peak power d emand was 6.7 GW 13 , and long-term demand projections from our prior wor k 5 suggest wide variation in possible outcomes depending energy neede d for space cooling related electricity demand (see Table 1). This wide range of po ssible future outcomes creates signiﬁcant uncertainty for investment planning in the distribution networks. Table 1: Projected peak demand (GW) under the baseline and hi gh-AC-eﬃciency scenarios assuming stable GDP growth for the city state of Delhi. Furth er details in 5 High AC eﬃciency Baseline 2020 6.7 6.7 2030 12.7 15.2 2040 25 36.7 2050 34 63.8 Historically, distribution companies have not considered demand unc ertainty in their long-term network planning, but have instead resorted to d eterministic net present value methodologies 1, 14 . Demand forecasts enable a comparative assessment of programimplementation such as eﬃciency, policy, an d technology under various scenarios. Probabilistic forecasting and ﬂexible plann ing may be most useful in situations when the magnitude of future outcomes e xhibit wide variations, which is the case for the peak electricity demand projec tions for 2 a city like Delhi (Table 1). Accounting for uncertainty in investment p lanning mayparticularlybe importantwhencontemplatingthe useofdistribu ted energy resources (DER) as an alternative to grid expansion, owing to the m odularity of DER technologies and their speed of deployment. Until recently, most DER in EMDE countries have been in the form of diesel generators deploy ed near large commercial and industrial (C I) loads 15 . However,
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	arXiv:1804.08209v1 cs.SY 23 Apr 20182018 IEEE International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Charlotte, USA Synthesizing Distributed Energy Resources in Microgrids with Temporal Logic Speciﬁcations Yichen Zhang , Mohammed Olama , Alexander Melin , Yaosuo Xue , Seddik Djouadi , Kevin Tomsovic Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science , University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 Email: yzhan124, mdjouadi, tomsovic utk.edu. Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831 Email: olamahussemm, melina, xuey ornl.gov ornl.gov. Abstract Grid supportive (GS) modes integrated within dis- tributed energy resources (DERs) can improve the frequency response. However, synthesis of GS modes for guaranteed per for- mance is challenging. Moreover, a tool is needed to handle so phis- ticated speciﬁcations from grid codes and protection relay s. This paper proposes a model predictive control (MPC)-based mode synthesis methodology, which can accommodate the temporal logic speciﬁcations (TLSs). The TLSs allow richer descript ions of control speciﬁcations addressing both magnitude and tim e at the same time. The proposed controller will compute a series of Boolean control signals to synthesize the GS mode of DERs by solving the MPC problem under the normal condition, where th e frequency response predicted by a reduced-order model sati sﬁes the deﬁned speciﬁcations. Once a sizable disturbance is det ected, the pre-calculated signals are applied to the DERs. The prop osed synthesis methodology is veriﬁed on the full nonlinear mode l in Simulink. A robust factor is imposed on the speciﬁcations to compensate the response mismatch between the reduce-order model and nonlinear model so that the nonlinear response satisﬁes the required TLS. I. I NTRODUCTION Microgrids have become an ideal solution for powering remote locations 1 . Such microgrids are usually fed by mixed sources of diesel generators (DGs) and distributed energy resources (DERs) to reduce the cost 1 . Most DERs are converter-interfaced and do not respond to frequency excursions in the grid. Such characteristics of DERs can severely degrade the performance of frequency response wit h increasing penetration, leading to larger rate of change of frequency and frequency excursion during the transient per iod 2 . This could lead to a potential trip of any rotating machine connected to the network, or possibly trigger unnecessary frequency relays, in which case the system has adequate capacity to attain a stable steady-state 3 . Currently, lots of grid supportive (GS) modes have been integrated into the converter active power control loops. Among all converter- interfaced DERs, the wind turbine generators (WTGs) are This manuscript has been authored by UT-Battelle, LLC, unde r contract DE-AC05-00OR22725 with the U.S. Dept. of Energy.preferred to be integrated with supportive functions due to the large amount of available kinetic energy. On the one hand, synthesis of such hybrid controllers to achieve certain system performance speciﬁcations is a chal - lenging task since most GS modes are feeding with only local information and lack of grid dynamics awareness capacity. This issue are tackled from two aspects. Refs. 3 6 employ certain simpliﬁed models to estimate the frequency dynam- ics, based on which the control are designed. Alternatively , certain pre-event simulations are carried out to determine the commitment of GS modes in 7 , 8 . On the other hand, performance speciﬁcations in most literature are only state-dependent. But the protection re plays of power system in real industry are designed based on states and dwell time simultaneously. Most of the grid codes also allow states to enter certain restricted regions, but the dw ell time should not be larger than a speciﬁed value. So, it is natu ral to seek a tool that can specify time and region requirements in control designs. The temporal logic speciﬁcations (TLSs ) allow richer descriptions of speciﬁcations including set, logic and time-related properties. For example, to guarantee the proper operation of microgrids, the speed deviation of the synchronous generator should not exceed 1.5Hz for 0.1 second 9 . The pioneering work in 10 introduces the TLSs for controller synthesis of energy storage systems, where t he frequency is requried to restore back to 60 0.2Hz within 2 seconds. In this paper, inspired by both 4 and 7 and motived by the introduction of TLSs 10 , a model predictive control (MPC)- based control synthesis methodology is proposed, which can accommodate the TLSs. The controller is conﬁgured into two levels including the scheduling level and the triggerin g level. In the scheduling level, a series of Boolean control signals are computed by solving the MPC problem, where the frequency response predicted by a reduced-order model satisﬁes the deﬁned speciﬁcations under a given worse-case contingency. In addition, the scheduling level will consta ntly re-schedule the signal based on the operating condition and varying speciﬁcations. The triggering level will measure t he frequency and detect whether a severe contingency close to the worst case is happening. Once such a contingency is detected, the scheduled signals are applied to the WTGs. The performance will be guaranteed by the scheduling level if th e analytical model can precisely estimate the system behavio r. The overall conﬁguration is analogous to the adaptive remed ial action scheme in 6 . The reminder of the paper is organized as follows. Section IIintroduces preliminary knowledge about TLSs. Section III introduces the models of microgrids with DGs and WTGs, where the analytical models are derived. Section IVintroduces the MPC-based control synthesis methodology, including th e overall conﬁguration, MPC formulation for the scheduling level, and the results with nonlinear simulation veriﬁcati ons. Conclusions and future works are discussed in Section V. II. P RELIMINARIES ON TEMPORAL LOGIC SPECIFICATION A temporal logic speciﬁcation is built by combining the atomic propositions (APs) using logical and temporal opera - tors. An AP is a statement on the system variables that is eith er true or false for some given value of the systems variables 11 . For example, the statement the grid frequency deviation should never exceed 0.5 Hz is an AP. The commonly used logical operators are conjunction ( ),
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	1 EnergyREV WP5.3: Next Wave of Local Energy Systems in a Whole Systems Context Briefing Note B1: Early Insights into System Impacts of Smart Local Energy Systems M. Aunedi and T.C. Green , Imperial College London Introduction UK s e nergy sector is expected to undergo a fundamental transformation over the next few decades to deliver on the ambitious target set by the Government to bring all greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050 . Decarbonis ation of the energy system will require significant and continued investment in low -carbon energy sources such as renewable s, nuclear and carbon capture and storage (CCS), and will most likely entail a significant degree of electrification of heat and transport sectors. Although a large fraction of future elec tricity will be provided through in vestment i n large -scale low-carbon technologies (e.g. offshore wind ) and will therefore flow from the transmission net work to the end users, the provision of flexibility and resilience is thought likely to shift towards decentralised and distributed sources provided by consumers of end -use energy 1 . Recent analysis 2 has demonstrate d that cost savings in operating and investment costs from the application of flexible technologie s could reach 8bn year in 2030. This arises because flexibility, such as in term s of when energy is used, enables energy needs to be satisfied with a smaller investment in generation and network infrastructure and then making use of that generation fully whenever it is able to provide. There are, however, a number of barriers to using decentralised assets to provide flexibility under the current paradigm of centralised system design and operation. Smart Local Energy Systems (SLES) are seen as a vehicle for unlocking the potential for decentralised flexibility , Summary of Main Findings A whole -system, investment -optimising model has been used to examine the change in total cost of meeting demand for electricity when Smart Local Energy Systems (SLES) are deployed. Our assumption is that SLES, alongside their other features, enhance the flexibility of electricity consumption through demand -side response (DSR) and facilitate use of local energy storage. We find that: With the flexibility of SLES present, variable renewables such as offshore wind can displace firm but more expen sive low-carbon sources such as CCS. Considering a 100 gCO 2 kWh emissions target in 20 30, a 10 penetration of S LES could reduce total costs by 1.2bn year relative to no SLES. At higher penetration of 50 SLES , savings increase twofold to 2.8bn year. Under a more stringent emissions limit of 25 gCO 2 kWh in 20 40, the savings rise to 2.9bn year for 10 SLES uptake and rise threefold to 8.7bn year at 50 uptake. These results hold for costs of enabling DSR of less than 100 kW and it is not until an unlikely 5,000 kW that the savings are nullified. The savings from substituting wind for CCS remain substantial even if the anticipated reduction of cost of wind in 2040 does not materialise. Cost savings from the flexibility provided by SLES are affected by realisation of domestic DSR through other means. A 20 uptake level of non -SLES DSR in 2040 still allows SLES to create cost savings of 6. 8bn year at 50 penetration (a 20 fall from 8.7bn year). 2 driven not only by an inc reased general recognition of the importance of flexibility but also by local stakeholders seeking to align the development of local energy systems with the objectives of the local community. There is currently a lack of detailed knowledge as to the magnitude and nature of the contribution that SLES can make to not just local but also national objectives such as cost -efficient decarbonisation and quite what economic costs and benefits arise . Potential benefits of SLES There is no single definition of SLES as there is a variety of ways in which they could be implemented and configured , including variations in geographical boundaries, energy vectors included, types of assets (generation, storage, flexible demand) and the actors involved . Analytical approaches have been proposed in the literature to evaluate local energy system s on a wide scale and it is common to reduc e the complexity of the problem by specifying a manageable and representative number of archetypal local energy systems 3 . A framework for u nderstanding the process by which SLES could potentially deliver both system and societal benefits has been established in 4 . One of the key aspects of the system value of SLES is the set of benefits arising from providing local flexibility to the wider energy system , thus contributing to a more cost -effective int egration of renewable energy sources (RES) 5 . A recent report 6 stresse d the need for end -use customers to become engaged at a local level with the transformation to a decarbonised and less -centralised energy system , through changes in individual homes (energy efficiency measures and new heating technologies ), cars (electric vehicles) and types of household appliance ( providing options for demand response) . The report estimates that with the right policy support , the community energy sector in the UK could grow to between 12 and 20 times larger than today by 2030 and could encompass up to 4,000 organisations . Objective The objective of this Briefing Note is to assess the value to the whole energy system of SLES , with a particular focus on the whole -system benefits of local flexibility resources that might be unlocked and enhanced by SLES . For the purpose of the analysis presented here, flexibility is assumed to entail any action that is taken in response to system conditions by customers such as modify ing their original energy use profiles or moving their energy use in time, or actions taken by energy storage assets to inject or absorb energy from the grid. The assessment is carried out against the backdrop of a transition to a low- or zero
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	1 Abstract --As compared to load demand, frequent wind energy intermittencies produce large short-term (sub 1-hr to 3-hr) deficits (and surpluses) in the energy supply. These intermittent deficits pose systemic and structural risks that will likely lead to energy deficits that have signific ant reliability implications for energy system operators and consumers. This work provides a toolset to help policy makers quant ify these first-order risks. The thinking methodology framework shows that increasing wind energy penetration significantly increases the risk of loss in California. In addition, the work presents holistic risk tables as a general innovation to help decision makers quickly grasp the full impact of risk. Index Terms --California, renewable energy, risk analysis, systems engineering, wind power generation. I. INTRODUCTION HIS work is presented as a companion to our paper submitted for publication 1 . Two important outputs in that report are: (1) If the components in California s Renewable Portfolio Standard (R PS) grow at current rates, wind energy will constitute 15 of the state s energy generation by 2016;1 (2) The state has energy reserve capacity between 2 and 5 GWh (5 to 10 of total 2009 energy demand) consisting of spinning (and other) reserves. For the wind component of the RPS (wRPS) greater than 5 , the current reserve capacity is too low and not correctly configured to mitigate the risks associated with wind intermittency. The random, frequent (hour-to-hour) and large changes in wind energy output create deficits (and surpluses) (Fig. 1) that impose new stresses and risks for the stability of the electric grid infrastructure. Without utility-scale energy storage assets, the nature of these risks is significantly different from other conventional energy sources like fossil fuels. Wind energy intermittencies cr eate systemic and structural risks. In this context, systemic risk defines risk that is tied to the hour-to-hour operation of the energy grid. This type of risk affects the entire grid or major segments of it on a dynamic basis. Structural risk is that associated with chronic shortfalls due to insufficient energy generation. This is a Financial support for this work is provided by GridByte, Inc., Energy Policy Analytics Practice. S. O. George and H. B. George, Ph.D. are with GridByte, Inc., 65 Enterprise, Aliso Viejo, CA 92656 USA (e-mail: info gridbyte.com). S. V. Nguyen, Ph.D. is with Shell Projects and Technology, Innovation and R D Division, Houston, TX 77002 USA. 1 The quantity of 15 by 2016 is an illustrative benchmark from the data extrapolation presented in 1 . strategic planning problem that may stem from current use of simplistic macro-exchange equations in which annualized average energy from wRPS sources is made equivalent to energy produced from other non-renewable sources. Since the state does not plan to install redundant non-renewable generating equipment to compensate for the intermittencies of wind energy, the systemic structural risks will rise as the fraction of wRPS increases. In this scenario, beyond about 5 wind penetration 1 the st ate may experience risks leading to losses of tens of billions of dollars. In this work, the focus of wind energy risk planning is energy stability not safety, as is more common in nuclear energy. Under normal conditions (i.e., no storm or excessive load demand), it is not possible to forecast wind energy output with a high degree of confidence. As shown with the application of the hour-to-hour auto-correlation function (hhACF) in 1 , wind energy has large short-term predictive uncertainty. These, coupled with the fact that wind energy generation may fall to zero, are the basic factors of energy instability represented by wind. This work provides a toolset for policy makers struggling to make the right energy policy choices that will have profound multi-decades impact. In ou r view, proactive RPS energy policy choices must be balanced with appropriate understanding and mitigation of systemic and structural risk. The consequence of inadequate risk strategies possibly exposes the state to energy defi cit crises in 6 to 10 years. Why should Californians take this seriously? There is precedence of energy instability in our recent past; in the Risk Quantification Associated with Wind Energy Intermittency in California Sam O. George, Member, IEEE , H. Bola George, Ph.D. and Scott V. Nguyen, Ph.D. T Fig. 1: wRPS 15 energy production and load demand profiles vs. hour for a scenario containing 15 contiguous days. No energy is produced when wind speed falls below 4 m s or exceeds 25 m s. In this case, no energy is produced in 26 (7.22 ) out of 360 hours. 2 structural energy crises of 2 000-2001, it is estimated that California lost 40 to 45 billion (about 3.5 of Gross State Product (GSP)) 2 . During th is period, the state experienced rolling blackouts (load shedding) over 38 days 3 as energy demand exceeded supply by an average of 600 MW. In some cases, electricity customers lo st power for up to 16 hours. 2 Again, as cited in 1 , nota ble recent precedents exist in Denmark and Texas. A note about reading this document: The purpose is to provide an analytics framework fo r energy risk quantification. Of course, it is possible that businesses and government will not stand by and allow wRPS risks to become chronic. The reality is that we are operating under mandates codified in California law (CA AB 32 Governor s executive order) to achieve 33 RPS (RPS33) by 2030 . The logical action is that risk mitigation infrastructure will be added to cope with the inherent intermittencies of wind energy. One essential component of risk mitigati on infrastructure may include utility-scale storage. II. W IND ENERGY RISK ANALYTICS A. The Faulty Energy-Exchange Macro Equation Without significant utility-scale storage, wind energy should not be equated with energy from conventional sources (e.g., fossil-based). The underlying risk is that wind energy has large random short-term (sub 1-hr to 3-hr) intermittencies, as shown in Fig. 1, that necess itate constant compensation 1 . The energy-exchange macro equations equate the statistical average energy from wRPS genera
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Energy Systems Test Case Discovery Enabled by Test Case Profile and Repository Petra Raussi Carbon Neutral Solutions VTT Techn. Research Centre of Finland Espoo, Finland 0000 -0001 -9768 -8312 petra.raussi vtt.fi Kai Heussen Wind and Energy Systems Technical University of Denmark Roskilde, Denmark 0000 -0003 -3623 -1372 kheu dtu.dk Filip Pro stl Andre n Center for Energy AIT Austrian Institute of Technology Vienna, Austria filip.proestl -andren ait.ac.at Jirapa Kamsamrong Energy Division OFFIS e.V. Oldenburg, Germany jirapa.kamsamrong of fis.de Tesfaye Amare Zerihun Energy Systems SINTEF Energy AS Trondheim, Norway 0000 -0002 -3893 -957X tesfaye.zerihun sintef.no Jawad H. Kazmi Center for Energy AIT Austrian Institute of Technology Vienna, Austria 0000 -0001 -9720 -6862 jawad.kazmi ait.ac.at Alexandros Paspatis School of Electrical and Computer Eng. National Technical University of Athens Athens, Greece 0000 -0002 -3479 -019X agpaspatis mail.ntua.gr Edmund Widl Center for Energy AIT Austrian Institute of Technology Vienna, Austria 0000 -0002 -2834 -306X edmund.widl ait.ac.at Thomas I. Strasser Center for Energy AIT Austrian Institute of Technology Vienna, Austria 0000 -0002 -6415 -766X thomas.strasser ait.ac.at Felipe Castro Engineering Services SMA Solar Technology AG Kassel, Germany fcastro sma.de Luigi Pellegrino Materials and Generation Technology Ricerca sul Sistema Energetico S.p.A. Milan, Italy 0000 -0002 -1258 -9516 ing.pelle grinoluigi gmail.com Abstract Smart energy systems comprise multiple domains like power, thermal, control, information, and communication technology, which increases the complexity of research and development studies. This expansion also requires larger and ever so complex experimenta l pilot environments driving the demand for geographically distributed multi -research infrastructure tests. The Holistic Test Description approach supports the design of multi -domain and multi -research infrastructure tests by orga- nizing the test cases in to comprehensive segments, ensuring all relevant items for testing are covered. These test cases eventually form a pool, which to understand holistically would require studying and reading all the descriptions. This work proposes therefore the concept of Test Case Profiles to improve test case discovery and the structured creation of them. Test Case Profiles add further structure to the indexing in test case repositories. Along with the proposed indexing method, four different use cases are introduced to mo tivate additional applications of the proposed concept. Index Terms Energy system, test cases, test case discovery, test case profile, test case repository. This work received funding in the European Community s Horizon 2020 Program (H2020 2014 2020) under project ERIGrid 2.0 (Grant Agreement No. 870620). I. INTRODUCTION Energy system modeling and solution validation are becom - ing increasingly complex. Whil e previous studies could be very limited in scope and still provide valuable novelty, there is a need to find global optimal encompassing large multi - domain environments in the modern world. Therefore, smart energy system solutions should not be developed in isolation but exposed to other sectors, such as thermal and hydrogen systems. Sector integration increases the complexity of the Test Cases (TCs) and the difficulty in planning and designing tests due to the traditional disciplinary silos. Before actu al deployment, testing in a laboratory envi- ronment is quite often required to verify proof of concept. This necessitates a test setup that incorporates hardware and software to emulate a real -world testing environment such as Software -In-the-Loop (SI L) and or Hardware -in-the-Loop (HIL) in form of Controller Hardware -in-the-Loop (CHIL) or Power Hardware -in-the-Loop (PHIL) 1 4 . However, it is not easy to design multi -domain tests and execute them. The equipment required from each domain might not be abundantly available at each Research Infrastructure (RI). Therefore, multi -RI experiments are encouraged, in which the System under Test (SuT) and the test equipment are divided among several RIs, in different geographical locations. There are various experiment types in which two or more RIs can be interconnected 5 . Executing such experiments among several RIs and interconnection platforms deepens the complexity, further motivating the use of st ructured test planning and execution. In 6 , a structured method, Holistic Test Description (HTD), is introduced to support the design of multi -domain TCs. The HTD organizes a test case into comprehensive segments ensuring that all relevant items for the development are considered. A proven strategy to improve the quality of TC descriptions is the provision of exemplary TC formulations, as is practiced with Use Case (UC) repositories 7 , 8 . In this way, a collection of related TCs could be employed as a structured creation of TCs. However, it can be challenging to gain a quick overview of a pool of TCs while generating a multifaceted collection of TCs on the same research problem from various aspects. This motivates the question of how similarity betwee n TCs may be defined since a pure index -based search may prove inaccurate due to the multi -perspective nature of TCs. This work therefore proposes the concept of Test Case Profile (TCP) to improve TC discovery and structured creation of them. TCP adds a further structure to the indexing in TC repositories. Along with the proposed indexing method, four different UCs motivate additional applications of the proposed concept. The TCP approach is similar in principle to other multi -dimensional keyword identifi cation approaches known from the literature 9 . The remaining parts of the work are organized as follows: Section II provides the definition of TCPs and related context information whereas the formulation of them is presented in Section III. The usage of the TCPs on selected four UCs is shown in Section IV followed by a discussion and reflection in Section V. Finally, the conclusions and main findings are summarized in Se ction VI. II. TEST CASE PROFILES DEFINITION AND CONTEXT In this section, the proposed concept of TCPs is first defined, then the background for the definition and use is provided and finally, the basic usage of the TCPs is described. A. Test Case Profile Concept Definition A TCP describes a collection of TCs that share similar - ities, both in the context of application and testing facility properties. In contrast to common methods for describing and indexing UCs,
__label__energy	1 Iterative method for fast estimation of convective drying characteristics of biomass Gediminas Skarbaliusa (gediminas.skarbalius lei.lt ), Algis Džiugysa (algis.dziugys lei.lt ), Edgaras Misiulisa (edgaras.misiulis lei.lt ), Robertas Navakasa (robertas.navakas lei.lt ) a Laboratory of Heat Equipment Research and Testing, L ithuanian Energy Institute, Breslaujos St. 3, LT -44403 Kaunas, Lithuania corresponding author Abstract Convective drying of biomass is an important technological solution required to increase the quality of biomass for efficient biomass conversion in heat and power generation sector. We propose a fully predictive method based on iteratively solving heat power conserva tion equation , which evaluates the convective drying rate for deep fixed porous material bed containing any type of evaporating liquid during a constant -rate drying period with given inlet air parameters . The analysis of the heat power conservation equatio n during the constant -rate period showed that the drying rate of deep fixed moist porous material bed is a linear function of the inlet air mass flow rate and is independent of the initial masses of water and dry material inside the bed when inlet air absolute humidity is constant . Furthermore, the proposed method estimates the theoretical maximum possible drying rate for a drying system 2 with given inlet air conditions and; therefore, it can be used as an important tool for designing industrial equipment an d verifying the correctness of drying experiments. Keywords Thermodynamics; convective drying; theoretical analysis; biomass; fixed bed. 1. Introduction Over the last decades, the increasing global demand for energy has led to the excessive use of fossil fuels, releasing considerable amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, markedly affecting the environment . Therefore, the need for more environmen tally neutral alternative energy sources is evident. One of these alternative fuel sources in a major energy sector (the heat and power generation sector) is woody biomass, which is renewable and nearly CO 2-neutral 1 3 . Today it accounts for approximately of total g lobal energy use 4 . The main sour ces of woody biomass are forests, where the biomass is composed of all parts of the tree, and wood processing residuals, where the biomass is mainly composed of wood bark, sawdust and wood chips 5 . In recent years, the demand for biomass has risen; consequently, as there is a limited supply of high -quality biomass feedstock, the heat and power generation plants often resort to lower quality biomass 6 . The most important quality characteristic of biomass for thermochemical conversion is the moisture content. Inherently, biomass often has a high amount of moisture , owing to its bio -origin and its ability to absorb moisture from the environment. As a result, biomass feedstock can contain moisture contents of up to on a dry basis (d. b.), depending on the source 5,7,8 . Such high levels of moisture in biomass reduce the calorific value of the feedstock and complicates the thermal conversion processes employe d in heat and power generation plants, because a considerable amount of energy is wasted to heat and 3 evaporate the excessive moisture from the feedstock 9 . Furthermore, the incomplete conversion of biomass occurs when the moisture content exceeds a critical value, reducing the conversion efficiency and, if not properly addressed, increas ing the emission of harmful gasses 5,10 . The common solution to reduce the moisture content of the biomass feedstock before conversion is to employ a forced convect ion deep fixed bed dryers 5 . The main controllable parameters o f these dryers are the air temperature , air flow rate and feedstock height. Due to large variations in the properties of the biomass feedstock , dryer parameters need be optimi sed on demand for specific working conditions, such as the biomass feedstock type, particle size distribution, initial moisture content, and preferred moisture content for conversion. Optimisation of dryer parameters requires knowledge of the heat and mass transfer processes involved . According to experimental studies 11 14 , the convective drying process of deep fixed biomass beds (schematic representation given in Fig. 1 a) can be divided into thr ee distinctive periods 15 : an initial warm -up period, a constant -rate drying period and one or more falling - rate periods ( Fig. 1 d). In the initial warm -up period, the energy of the inlet air is consumed to heat and dry the porous material near the inlet of the bed (the drying zone formation ) and t o raise the temperature of the rest of the bed from the initial bed temperature to the wet - bulb temperature 16 (Fig. 1 b). By the end of the warm -up period, th e drying zone is fully formed, and the bed can be divided into three zones: the dried zone, drying zone and wet-bulb zone ( Fig. 1 c). The drying zone he re is considered as the spatial region of the bed where exchange of moisture from the wet material to the air takes place 12 . As the drying progresses into the constant -rate drying period, the drying zone starts to move downstream along the bed leaving dried material behind, while the porous material beyond the drying zone still contains the same or slightly higher amount (due to condensation) of moisture as in the 4 beginning of the drying process. Beyond the drying zone, the air is fully saturated with water vapour (relative h umidity is 100 ) and is in thermal equilibrium with the moist bed at the wet-bulb temperature (Fig. 1 b). Therefore, heat and mass transfer no longer take place as the saturated air continues to pass through the bed, and the outlet air temperature during the constant -rate drying period is equal to the wet -bulb temperature ( ). At the end of the drying process, the drying zone reaches the end of the bed, and the outlet air relative humidity , as well as the drying rate, start to decrease, while the outlet air temperature rises to the inlet air temperature (falling
__label__energy	1 Economic Nonlinear Model Predictive Control of Prosumer District Heating Networks: The Extended Version Max Sibeijn, Saeed Ahmed, Mohammad Khosravi, and Tam as Keviczky Abstract In this paper, we propose an economic nonlinear model predictive control (MPC) algorithm for district heating networks (DHNs). The proposed method features prosumers, multiple producers, and storage systems, which are essential components of 4th generation DHNs. These networks are char- acterized by their ability to optimize their operations, aiming to reduce supply temperatures, accommodate distributed heat sources, and leverage the flexibility provided by thermal in- ertia and storage all crucial for achieving a fossil-fuel-free energy supply. Developing a smart energy management system to accomplish these goals requires detailed models of highly complex nonlinear systems and computational algorithms able to handle large-scale optimization problems. To address this, we introduce a graph-based optimization-oriented model that efficiently integrates distributed producers, prosumers, storage buffers, and bidirectional pipe flows, such that it can be im- plemented in a real-time MPC setting. Furthermore, we conduct several numerical experiments to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms in closed-loop. Our findings demonstrate that the MPC methods achieved up to 9 cost improvement over traditional rule-based controllers while better maintaining system constraints. Index Terms district heating networks, large-scale systems, economic model predictive control, nonlinear model predictive control I. I NTRODUCTION THE energy transition requires a major shift from fossil fuel-based generation to renewable energy sources. In particular, the electrification of heat production is expected to grow enormously; see, e.g., 1 . Given that the thermal energy sector contributes roughly 50 to the total final energy consumption within the EU 2 , the need for sustainable heat- ing becomes ever more substantial. Simultaneously, a global increase in the burden on power grids is evident, driven by rising electricity demand (e.g., heat pumps, electric vehicles) and fluctuating supply from renewables (e.g., wind, solar). In order to address the higher demand and capacity limi- tations, a possible solution is to expand the existing infras- tructure of power grids. However, expanding power grids is This work was funded by the Local Inclusive Future Energy (LIFE) City Project (MOOI32019), funded by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate and by the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations of the Netherlands. Max Sibeijn, Mohammad Khosravi, and Tam as Keviczky are with the Delft Center for Systems and Control, Delft University of Technology, 2628 CN Delft, The Netherlands (e-mail: m.w.sibeijn, mohammad.khosravi, t.keviczky tudelft.nl). Saeed Ahmed is with the Jan C. Willems Center for Systems and Control, ENTEG, Faculty of Science and Engineering, University of Groningen, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands (e-mail: s.ahmed rug.nl).typically costly, time-consuming, and held back by a lack of appropriate regulatory frameworks 3 . An alternative solution is offered by the energy flexibility of district heating net- works (DHNs). DHNs are networks of pipelines that transport heated water by circulating it around a district or city. Heat is either taken from or added to the network through heat exchangers located at consumers and producers, respectively. An example of a DHN is shown in Figure 1. District heating offers numerous advantages. Economically, it is cost-effective to implement large installations that require less capacity due to simultaneous use. Additionally, DHNs possess significant thermal inertia, allowing them to efficiently utilize free or inexpensive heat from industrial processes or underground geothermal sources. This characteristic provides DHNs with a synergistic element, often referred to as the economy of scope 4 . Moreover, DHNs can create and exploit flexibility on daily operational timescales by responding to market conditions, which can, in turn, alleviate strain on the electricity grid. Nevertheless, DHNs are large-scale sys- tems with many distributed controllable assets. As a result, advanced control strategies are necessary for the effective operational management of these networks. Fig. 1. A schematic diagram of a district heating network with multiple substations (consumers) and production points. In the past, operational management of DHNs used rule- based controllers that set supply temperatures based on thearXiv:2501.17597v1 eess.SY 29 Jan 2025 2 outside temperatures 5 , while mass flows were controlled locally at substations using simple tracking controllers. For the new generation of district heating networks, referred to as 4th generation district heating 6 , these control methods are insufficient. Several studies 5 7 , emphasize the need for advanced control to achieve necessary goals such as supply temperature minimization, creation of flexibility, distribution of heat generation, use of renewable energy sources, and fair sharing of heat. Closed-loop optimization-based control methods, such as model predictive control (MPC), are at the intersection of stabilizing control and operational optimiza- tion 8 . MPC combines the classical benefits of stabiliz- ing control such as robustness to demand prediction errors and model mismatch with the advantages of optimization techniques. Therefore, MPC presents itself as a suitable and effective strategy for managing DHNs 7 . A. State of the Art Classical control methods for DHNs relied on controlling the temperature and the differential pressure at central supply units. For details on these methods, we refer to 4 , 7 , and the references therein. Recently, graph-based modeling techniques for DHNs have been a useful tool for developing various stabilizing controllers for both hydraulic and thermal management of DHNs. In this context, the pressure and flow regulation problem was addressed in 9 , 10 , temperature regulation was studied in 11 , 12 , and the stabilizing control of both storage and temperature in a DHN was studied in 13 15 . Moreover, the works 14 , 15 introduced a multi- producer graph model integrating the dynamic evolution of storage volumes. Operational optimization of DHNs has been a topic of inter- est for several decades, with earlier works dating back to the 1990s 16 , 17 . These studies highlighted the complexity of managing load distribution while simultaneously minimizing supply temperatures, a challenge stemming from the nonlinear nature of thermal transients and their dependence on flow rates. Recent studies, such as 18 , have addressed thermal transients and variable flow rates through the development of
__label__energy	1 Enabling Heterogeneous Catalys is to Achieve Carbon Neutrality: Directional Catalytic Conversion of CO 2 into Carboxylic Acids Xiaofei Zhang, xxx, Huabin Zhang Dr. X. Zhang, Prof. H. Zhang KAUST Catalysis Center (KCC), King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal 23955 -6900, Saudi Arabia Email: Huabin.zhang kaust.edu.sa Abstract The increas e in anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions has exacerbated the deterioration of the global environment , which should be controlled to achieve carbon neutrality. Central to the core goal of ach ieving carbon neutrality is the utilization of CO 2 under economic and sustainable conditions. Recently, the strong need for carbon neutrality has led to a proliferation of studies on the direct conversion of CO 2 into carboxylic acids, which could effective ly alleviate CO 2 emissions and create high -value chemicals. The purpose of this review is to present the application prospects of carboxylic acids and the basic principles of CO 2 conversion into carboxylic acids through photo -, electric -, and thermal catal ysis. Special attention is focused on the regulation strategy of the activity of abundant catalysts at the molecular level, inspiring the preparation of high -performance catalysts. In addition, theoretical calculation, advanced technologies, and numerous t ypical examples are introduced to elaborate on the corresponding process and influencing factors of catalytic activity. Finally, 2 challenges and prospects are provided for the future development of this field. It is hoped that this review contributes to a d eeper understanding of the conversion of CO 2 into carboxylic acids and inspires more innovative breakthroughs. 1. Introduction 1.1 General Background With the intensification of the global energy crisis and environmental deterioration caused by the warming climate, aiming for carbon -neutral recycling is in imminent demand regardless of environmental protection or economic development (1, 2). The effective conversion of carbon dioxide (CO 2) into fine chemicals has undoubtedly emerged as a powerful strate gy to achieve carbon -neutral recycling due to its low cost and potentially low energy consumption (3- 5). Extensive cost -effective conversion paths have been explored to realize such conversion practicably (5-8). To date, various methods and strategies, including biological transformation, photocatalytic reduction, electrocatal ytic reduction, organic transformation, dry reforming, and others, have been explored to convert CO 2 into valuable chemicals based on continuing in - depth studies over the past two decades (9-11). In general, CO 2 can be converted into numerous chemicals, such as CO, carboxylic acids, CH 3OH, CH 4, olefin, and so on, under the drivers of light, electricity, and heat (12, 13 ). A large volume of CO 2 emissions in the atmosphere is regarded as exhaust gas and the root cause of environmental dete rioration, whereas these products could become valuable raw chemical materials with wide application value through catalytic conversion. A well -known application of CO is the synthesis of aldehydes through hydroformylation reaction, and high toxicity also poses challenges for its use and storage (14). Another product, CH 3OH, can be widely used as 3 a fuel and is a vital chemical compound for producing long -chain hydrocarbons (15). Similarly, methane is an important storage fuel with the advantage of low -cost storage (16). Produced olefins, such as ethylene and propylene, are key chemicals in fa bricating plastics, medicines, and paints (17). Although CH 3OH, CH 4, and olefin have obvious economic value, their production processes undergo multiple electron transfers, leading to poor conversion efficiency and unsatisfactory product selectivity (18). In contrast to these products, carboxylic acids occupy a unique position due to the great breakthroughs made in recent years and their comme rcial value and apparent advantages, such as low toxicity, high density, and high value per kWh of electrical energy input, over other products. Despite the great progress achieved in the conversion and utilization of CO 2 in the past few decades, the extre me stability of CO 2 creates considerable challenges in its activation to participate in synthesizing carboxylic acids via specific intermediates and control the selectivity of carboxylic acids due to competitive reactions. This daunting challenge has promp ted the development of outstanding heterogeneous catalysts to efficiently convert CO 2 into carboxylic acids under mild conditions. Currently, the reported emerging nano -materials, including clusters, metal oxide, porous materials, organic -inorganic hybrid materials and alloys, have proved efficient heterogeneous catalysts presenting superior catalytic activity to homogeneous catalysts in producing carboxylic acids (19, 20 ). More effort should be made to discern the decisive factors in producing carboxylic acids through a dvanced characterization techniques and theoretical calculations to develop ideal catalysts based on an accurate understanding of the mechanical process to realize large -scale, efficient production of carboxylic acids with CO 2. 4 1.2 Introduction of Carboxyl ic Acid Compounds Carboxylic acids encompassing formic, acetic, benzoic, acetylenic, amino, lactic, and other acids are essential components in fine chemicals and are regarded as core compounds in the natural carbon cycle (21). These chemicals have great application value in synthesizing chemical compounds and energy conversion. In all these carboxylic acids, formic acid has the smallest molecular formula and can be obtained in high yield with clean water or hydrogen as a reactant to react with CO 2 over numerous heterogeneous catalysts (22). In addition, it is also regarded as a safe and convenient hydrogen storage carrier due to its high volumetric capacity of 53 g H 2 L, which can be converted into cle an electricity in direct formic acid fuel cells with appealing advantages, such as easy transportation and storage and high theoretical open -circuit voltage (23). Furthermore, it is an important chemical intermediate, which can be widely used in the leather, pesticide, antibacterial agent, medicine, livestock feed, dyestuff, and rubber industries (24). Moreover, other multi -carbon carboxylic acids have equivalent application prospects a nd economic value to formic acid. For example, they have been widely used as preservatives in pharmaceutical, cosmetic, agriculture, and polymer industries and are recognized as valuable platform chemicals for a growing nonfossil industry (25). The industrial production of carboxylic
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Data-Driven Probabilistic Energy Consumption Estimation for Battery Electric Vehicles with Model Uncertainty Ayan Maityaand Sudeshna Sarkarb aDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Kharagpur, India;bDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Kharagpur, India ARTICLE HISTORY Compiled July 4, 2023 ABSTRACT This paper presents a novel probabilistic data-driven approach to trip-level energy consumption estimation of battery electric vehicles (BEVs). As there are very few electric vehicle (EV) charging stations, EV trip energy consumption estimation can make EV routing and charging planning easier for drivers. In this research article, we propose a new driver behaviour-centric EV energy consumption estimation model using probabilistic neural networks with model uncertainty. By incorporating model uncertainty into neural networks, we have created an ensemble of neural networks using Monte Carlo approximation. Our method comprehensively considers various vehicle dynamics, driver behaviour and environmental factors to estimate EV energy consumption for a given trip. We propose relative positive acceleration (RPA), aver- age acceleration and average deceleration as driver behaviour factors in EV energy consumption estimation and this paper shows that the use of these driver behaviour features improves the accuracy of the EV energy consumption model significantly. Instead of predicting a single-point estimate for EV trip energy consumption, this proposed method predicts a probability distribution for the EV trip energy consump- tion. The experimental results of our approach show that our proposed probabilistic neural network with weight uncertainty achieves a mean absolute percentage error of 9.3 and outperforms other existing EV energy consumption models in terms of accuracy. KEYWORDS Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs); Electric Vehicles (EVs); Energy Consumption; Uncertainty; Neural Networks; Probabilistic Model; Range Estimation; Driver Behaviour 1. Introduction Battery electric vehicles (BEVs) have emerged as promising replacements for inter- nal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs) in recent times. Electric Vehicles are more energy-efficient and eco-friendly than ICEVs. With the advent of machine learning (ML), neural network (NN), and big data, researchers and automotive engineers are taking interest in data-driven models for electric vehicle (EV) trip energy consumption prediction. Corresponding Author : Ayan Maity. Email : ayanmaity201 kgpian.iitkgp.ac.in CONTACT Ayan Maity. Email : ayanmaity201 kgpian.iitkgp.ac.in CONTACT Sudeshna Sarkar. Email : sudeshna cse.iitkgp.ac.inarXiv:2307.00469v1 cs.LG 2 Jul 2023 This paper proposes a probabilistic data-driven approach for EV trip-level energy consumption estimation in this paper. In EV trip-level energy consumption estimation problem, the main objective is to predict the EV energy consumption for a given trip using various vehicle dynamics, environmental and driver behaviour factors along the trip route. Though EVs are gaining popularity, one of the main obstacles to mass adoption of EVs is range anxiety. As there are very few electric charging stations and EV charging time is much higher compared to conventional vehicles (Montoya et al. 2017), the EV might run out of energy in the middle of a trip and this gives rise to driver range anxiety (Chen et al. 2020). Therefore, a reliable and accurate EV trip energy consumption estimation can help EV users plan their trip routes, and charging stops accordingly. It is important for EV users to get an estimate of the energy con- sumption for a given trip before the start of the journey. As EVs have a limited range, trip energy consumption estimation enables the EV users to compute the remaining range of the EV and schedule the recharging. Thus, the EV trip energy consump- tion model can reduce driver range anxiety (De Cauwer et al. 2017). Additionally, EV energy consumption estimation helps in the optimal placement and deployment of charging stations. Accurate energy consumption prediction of EV trips can be useful in computing the energy consumption of an EV fleet in a local area, which is vital in building an optimal charging stations network (Fazeli et al. 2020; Yang, Zhang, and Meng 2020; Ahmad et al. 2022). The EV energy estimation system can also be utilised in developing an optimal charging scheduling system for EV fleets (Korkas et al. 2017). Researchers in the past have proposed EV energy consumption systems based on physical and mathematical modelling of EVs (Sarrafan et al. 2017; Prins, Hurlbrink, and Winslow 2013). But it is very difficult to quantify and incorporate driver behaviour and environmental factors into mathematical energy consumption models. Driver be- haviour (Vatanparvar et al. 2019; Al-Wreikat, Serrano, and Sodr e 2021) and external environmental factors (Younes et al. 2013) can have huge influence on energy use in a given trip. Data-driven methods for EV trip energy consumption have also been proposed in recent years (De Cauwer et al. 2017; Qi et al. 2018; Petkevicius et al. 2021). Though the data-driven methods generally perform better than the mathemat- ical models, most of the previously proposed data-driven methods have not utilised driver behaviour factors effectively to estimate EV trip energy consumption. Electric vehicle energy consumption is susceptible to various internal, environmen- tal, physical and driver-related factors (Younes et al. 2013). Even a minimal change or deviation in any of those factors can drastically alter the energy consumption of EVs. As the energy consumption is highly uncertain, deterministic models are not very reliable under real-world circumstances. It can be helpful for the users if the esti- mation method can predict a probability distribution or a confidence interval for the trip energy consumption. The energy consumption uncertainty will help the users to decide if charging stops are required in a trip. The energy consumption uncertainty and confidence interval can be utilised to develop robust and adaptive EV energy management systems and EV routing planning systems (Basso, Kulcs ar, and Sanchez- Diaz 2021; Basso et al. 2022). The confidence interval will also be useful in building optimal charging stations networks. In order to address the problem of variability in energy consumption, probabilistic models (Petkevicius et al. 2021; Basso, Kulcs ar, and Sanchez-Diaz 2021; Jiang et al. 2023) have been proposed in various research studies. However, these probabilistic methods have not included model uncertainty or weight uncertainty in the models. In this research study, we have proposed a probabilistic neural network (NN) with
__label__energy	1 Load Shaping Based Privacy Protection in Smart Grids: An Overview Cihan Emre Kement 1, 2 Abstract Fine-grained energy usage data collected by Smart Meters (SM) is one of the key components of the smart grid (SG). While collection of this data enhances efficiency and flexibility of SG, it also poses a serious threat to the privacy of consumers. Through techniques such as nonintrusive appliance load monitoring (NALM), this data can be used to identify the appliances being used, and hence disclose the private life of the consumer. Various methods have been proposed in the literature to preserve the consumer privacy. This paper focuses on load shaping (LS) methods, which alters the consumption data by means of household amenities in order to ensure privacy. An overview of the privacy protection techniques, as well as heuristics of the LS methods, privacy measures, and household amenities used for privacy protection are presented in order to thoroughly analyze the effectiveness and applicability of these methods to smart grid systems. Finally, possible research directions related to privacy protection in smart grids are discussed. Keywords: Advanced metering infrastructure, battery load hiding, load shaping, privacy metrics, smart grid privacy, smart meters. 1. INTRODUCTION Rapid changes in the technology towards the end of the 20th and the beginning of the 21st century imposed changes in the people s lives as well as their energy consumption. Daily life becomes more and more dependent on electricity, due to the digital transformation and new products such as plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs). Today s electric grid is expected to meet the increasing consumer demand as well as to be more reliable, efficient, scalable and secure. In order to fulfill these expectations, smart grids (SGs) are being developed, where the energy flow is coupled with a two-way information flow between the components of the grid structure. The information flow throughout the SG has many advantages. Distribution system operators (DSOs) can quickly detect failures or shortages, whereas electricity generators (EGs) can monitor the electricity usage data in order to tune electricity production and hence increase efficiency. The latter is made possible by advanced metering infrastructure (AMI), where fine-grained electricity usage of consumers is collected with the help of smart meters (SMs). Although the high-granularity consumption data is very useful for both the supply and demand sides, it also contains very detailed information about the consumers private lives. By using nonintrusive appliance load monitoring (NALM) techniques, the power signature of a house can be disintegrated into the individual appliances 1 - 7 . Therefore, sensitive information such as the number of residents, daily consumption patterns of the residents and whether the house is vacant or not can be inferred from the collected data. In order to protect the consumers privacy, many methods such as load shaping (LS), adding noise to the consumption data, differential privacy, data aggregation and cryptographic measures have been proposed in the literature. Among these, LS methods stand out as they hide the details of electricity usage while providing the utility company (UC) with the true consumption data. The remainder of this paper is as follows: First, some background information about the AMI and NALM techniques, as well as different notions of privacy in the case of SGs are provided. Then, various privacy protection methods are categorized, indicating their advantages and disadvantages, followed by the LS methods in detail. The means used for LS are explained, along with their limitations. Then, various privacy 1 Laboratory of Information and Decision Systems (LIDS), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. kement at mit.edu 2 TOBB University of Economics and Technology, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, 06510, Cankaya, Ankara, Turkey. ckement at etu.edu.tr Load Shaping Based Privacy Protection in Smart Grids: An Overview 2 measures proposed are reviewed. Finally, future research directions for LS based privacy protection in SGs are proposed. Concluding remarks are provided in the conclusion section. 2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION 2.1. Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) AMI is an integrated system of communication networks and SMs which enables the two-way communication between consumers and UCs 8 . This two-way communication comes with many advantages. It enables DSOs to automatically detect outages, which would be otherwise reported by customers. UCs can learn a lot more detail about the electricity usage trends of their consumers. By using this information, UCs can increase their efficiency. Furthermore, UCs can provide real-time electricity prices to consumers, who can use this information to reduce their electricity bills by shifting their electricity usage to off-peak hours. This is an example of demand side management (DSM), a scheme where the electricity usage of consumers is changed by UCs by using various incentives. 2.2. Nonintrusive Appliance Load Monitoring (NALM) NALM is a process for inferring which appliances have been used from the aggregated electricity load profile. Originally invented by Hart et al. 9 in 1985, today NALM is a family of methods all of which use different properties of the load signature in order to distinguish between electric appliances accurately. NALM uses unique power signatures of appliances such as the (real and reactive) power levels, operation duration and periodicity to identify them. Appliances can in general be divided into three categories; namely ON OFF appliances (such as a light bulb), Finite State Machine (FSM) appliances (such as refrigerators and washing machines) and continuously variable appliances (such as light dimmers and sewing machines). Unique properties of these appliance categories are utilized for an effective identification. 2.3. Notions of Privacy Privacy threats that are introduced with the SG can be interpreted in different ways. As described earlier, NALM techniques can reveal the appliance usage data. However, some of this data can be of less importance in terms of privacy. For example; usage data of a toaster machine and a kettle can be interpreted as the resident being hungry, but how private this information is to the resident? These scenarios lead to different notions of privacy. NIST guidelines 11 listed some of the information which can be sensitive to the consumers as in
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Towards Balanced Three-phase Charging: Phase Optimization in Adaptive Charging Networks Zixin Ye , Tongxin Liyand Steven Low y Department of Electrical Engineering yDepartment of Computing and Mathematical Sciences California Institute of Technology zyye, tongxin, slow caltech.edu Abstract We study the problem of phase optimization for electric-vehicle (EV) charging. We formulate our problem as a non-convex mixed-integer programming problem whose objective is to minimize the charging loss. Despite the hardness of directly solving this non-convex problem, we solve a relaxation of the original problem by proposing the PXA algorithm where P , X , and A stand for three variable matrices in the formed phase optimization problems. We show that under certain condi- tions, the solution is given by the PXA precisely converges to the global optimum. In addition, using the idea of model predictive control (MPC), we design the PXA-MPC, which is an online implementation of the PXA. Compared to other empirical phase balancing strategies, the PXA algorithm signiﬁcantly improves the charging performance by maximizing energy delivery, mini- mizing charging price, and assisting future energy planning. The efﬁcacy of our algorithm is demonstrated using data collected from a real-world adaptive EV charging network (ACN). Index Terms Electric vehicle charging, adaptive charging networks, system modeling, phase optimization. I. I NTRODUCTION As a long-lasting problem, phase optimization has been studied in recent decades for distribution networks 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . A more balanced power supply can improve power delivery efﬁciency, reduce power line hazards during trans- mission, and increase decision ﬂexibility for a variety of ancillary services. A balanced three-phase power ﬂow can be produced by dynamically controlling the power supply for load units from each phase line. Such a control mechanism is inherently compatible with an EV charging network. Indeed, phase optimization for EV charging can produce substantial economic beneﬁts, especially in a large-scale and high-density (LSHD), power-delivery adaptive, and information-sensitive network. A three-phase adaptive charging network (ACN) 5 includes all those features that strongly motivate the necessity of phase optimization. A real-world ACN often has a three- phase conﬁguration, equipped with software-deﬁned charging control. Our work relies on the Caltech ACN, a multi-story charging facility at Caltech campus 6 , 7 . In theory, ACN phase optimization is a problem that can be solved by either the demand or the supply side. Existing Accepted by the 22nd Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC 2022). Figure 1: The ACN phase optimization process. Step 1. EVisends information a priori : e.g., arrival time ai, parking duration di, and energy demand ei.Step 2.the controller computes the optimal phase selection Xi2fab; bc; cagand charging strategy Ai.Step 3. the controller returns a set Siof all empty slots whose corresponding phases match Xi.Step 4. EVichooses a slot from Si and starts charging according to Ai. charging infrastructures, such as 5 , assume ﬁxed phase selec- tions determined by demand providers such as EV drivers, and thereby a globally optimal solution can be exactly computed by the supply side. In contrast to this, when the supplier of charging facilities is able to control the phase selections, i.e., the energy demand allocated to phases becomes a decision variable, the charging system can be operated in a more energy and cost-efﬁcient way by maintaining a balanced or near- balanced network. The control of phase selections can be achieved by either deploying PV inverters with a balancing inverter 8 or developing smart mobile applications to inform a driver of his desirable parking charging locations. In fact, balancing phases via either PV inverters or providing phase suggestions to drivers require to solve a phase optimization problem. In this work, we will formally give a mathematical formulation for the phase optimization problem and provide algorithms for proactive phase allocation. In practice, we consider an ACN phase optimization pro- cess, as illustrated in Figure 1. Based on charging inputs provided by an EV driver upon arrival, an ACN controller computes optimal phase(s) within seconds and shares thearXiv:2205.10499v1 math.OC 21 May 2022 2 suggested location(s) to the driver through a mobile app or payment machines at the entrance of the charging station. Those available locations have chargers mapping to one of the phases, i.e.,fab; bc; cagto which the vehicle will con- nect. It is worth emphasizing that such a phase-optimization and the demand-allocation process can signiﬁcantly improve charging efﬁciency and reduce electricity cost if the following assumptions are satisﬁed: (1). Each phase is connected with a sufﬁcient amount of ACN chargers. (2). Charger-to-phase connection is immutable. (3) EV drivers charging inputs are accurate, i.e., the charging duration and energy demand. (4) EV drivers follow suggested charging parking instructions. Note that (1) and (2) are reasonable assumptions for an LSHD ACN; (3) and (4) are practical assumptions by penalizing the violation of ACN instructions, e.g., by disabling the charging service at places corresponding to the phases that are not allocated to a driver. Related Work. There is vast literature on the EV charg- ing problem for ACNs. The authors of 6 proposed model predictive control-based methods for EV charging. Optimal EV charging as second-order-cone programming (SOCP) was proposed and solved in 9 and 10 . The authors of 11 illustrated detailed ACN architectures and proposed a novel model-predictive-control (MPC) algorithm that handles unbal- anced three-phase infrastructure. With historical ACN charg- ing records, reinforcement learning was used to generate penalty-based terminal functions that facilitate energy-cost efﬁciency 12 . Despite that many ACN charging algorithms have been studied and implemented in practice, balancing three-phase EV charging demands for ACNs has not yet attracted enough attention, except for a few works that tackled imbalanced EV connections. For instance, 13 , 14 used optimization-based methods to balance renewable penetra- tions, e.g., to minimize the peak-valley gap. Similarly, 15 , 16 handled imbalanced phase connections by analyzing voltage sensitivity and demand response. However, none of them have studied the phase optimization problem by ﬁnding an optimal dispatch of committed EVs for real-world ACNs. Main Contributions. The main contributions of this paper are three-fold. First, to ﬁnd optimal
__label__energy	A Lagrangian-Informed Long-Term Dispatch Policy for Coupled Hydropower and Photovoltaic Systems Eliza Cohn, Ning Qi, Upmanu Lall, Bolun Xu Earth and Environmental Engineering Columbia University New York, USA ec3766, nq2176, ula2, bx2177 columbia.edu Abstract This paper presents a long-term dispatch framework for coupled hydropower and floating photovoltaic systems. We introduce a temporal decomposition algorithm based on par- tial Lagrangian relaxation to address long-term water contract constraints. We derive a real-time, non-anticipatory dispatch policy based on water contract pricing. Our framework is evaluated with a case study using real-world hydrology and power system data from Lake Mead and Lake Powell, on the Colorado River, demonstrating competitive performance against commercial solvers for both linearized and nonlinear reser- voir models. We conduct a sensitivity analysis on transmission capacity, electricity price and uncertainty scenarios, showing that the operational performance is significantly impacted by the transmission capacity and electricity prices while remaining relatively robust under uncertainty scenarios. Index Terms Hydropower, floating photovoltaics, long-term dispatch, water contract, Lagrangian relaxation I. I NTRODUCTION Reservoir-based hydropower is an economical and clean form of electricity. It is a flexible form of a generation capable of rapidly deploying energy from stored water while incurring no additional fuel costs and producing negligible emissions 1 . Recent deployments of floating solar photo- voltaic (FPV) systems in hydropower reservoirs enhance the utilization of local power infrastructure, improve generation efficiency, and support a reliable and clean energy supply 2 , 3 . This synergy enables innovative water release policies that enhance resilience and effectively integrate water management, solar generation, and grid requirements 4 . Operating hydropower with FPV must balance hourly power generation with water supply and flood control from the reservoir, requiring adherence to monthly water release targets and resulting in a multi-time-period optimization problem over a one-month horizon. However, solving this problem is challenging due to model nonlinearity 5 , long-term inter- temporal water release constraints 6 , etc. Regarding hy- dropower modeling, existing studies typically employ linear models 7 , piecewise linear models 8 , or machine learning models 9 . However, for large-scale multiple hydropower systems, these models become inefficient due to infeasibility or computational efficiency issues. On the other hand, existing studies primarily focus on short-term operations of coupled This work was partly supported by the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship under Grant No. DGE-2036197 and partly by the Department of Energy under Grant No. DE-EE0011385.hydropower and FPV within a 24-hour horizon, addressing un- certainties using risk-averse methods with pre-known knowl- edge of uncertainties 10 , 11 or rolling-horizon approaches with updated short-term forecasts 12 , 13 . However, these methods become intractable for long-term operations, as long- term forecasts are often non-anticipated or unreliable 14 , and decomposition methods struggle to manage long-term inter- temporal constraints. Moreover, the existing heuristic policies for long-term operations 15 may lead to suboptimal solutions and reliability issues. The updated long-term reference, coor- dinated with online convex optimization, is proposed for long- term operations of hydrogen in 16 , but it does not account for long-term constraints. Hence, it is significant to develop a more sophisticated hydropower model and long-term decision- making policy for the coupled hydropower and FPV . Motivated by this background, this paper proposes a Lagrangian-informed long-term dispatch framework with non- linear and nonconvex hydropower model for coupled hy- dropower and FPV systems. Specially, our contributions of this paper are as follows: Methodology: We develop a sequential non-anticipatory decision-making method for multi-time-period dispatch of coupled hydropower and FPV . The proposed method leverages partial Lagrangian relaxation to decompose the original problem into single-horizon dispatch and employs a bisection algorithm to determine the optimal shadow price of the long-term water release constraint. This enables efficient and reliable real-time energy man- agement of coupled systems over a monthly horizon. Modeling: We incorporate a nonlinear and nonconvex hydraulic head function, fitted from real-world data, into the long-term dispatch framework. We demonstrate that this incorporation is both feasible and computationally efficient with the proposed decomposition method. Numerical Analysis: We validate the proposed frame- work through a real-world case study on the Hoover and Glen Canyon Dams, modeled in aggregate with a hypothetical FPV installation 17 . We show that the proposed method achieves near-optimal performance with perfect foresight. We then conduct a sensitivity analy- sis on transmission capacities and uncertainty scenarios which provides valuable insights on applications and further extension. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Sec- tion II presents the problem formulation. Section III introducedarXiv:2503.01690v1 eess.SY 3 Mar 2025 the partial Lagrangian relaxation method. Section IV describes the numerical studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Finally, we conclude this paper in Section V. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION We consider a coupled generation system combining hy- dropower and FPV . The coupled generation system operates under the same operator and transmission line. Hydropower manages reservoir water release for energy generation and other purposes, while FPV controls solar power based on available solar radiation. While the formulation proposed here is deterministic, we will show in Section IV that it serves as a baseline for developing a non-anticipatory dispatch policy. A. Formulation We formulate a multi-period optimization problem in (1) to maximize total generation revenue over the time period set T 1,2,. . .,T based on price of electricity λt( MWh). All units are normalized by the time step duration which is one hour in our case study. max ht,st,ut,VtX t Tλt(ht st) (1a) s.t.X t Tut U:θ (1b) Vt Vt 1 It ut,t T (1c) 0 ht ηgρϕ (Vt 1)ut 3.6e9,t T (1d) u ut u,t T (1e) R ut ut 1 R,t T (1f) 0 st αtS,t T (1g) 0 st ht P,t T (1h) where decision variables include st(MWh) denotes the dis- patched energy from FPV at time period t;ht(MWh) denotes the dispatched energy from hydropower at time period t;ut (m3) denotes the hourly water release at time period t;Vt(m3) denotes the reservoir volume at time period t. (1b) models the monthly water contract U(m3) and
__label__energy	Battery and Hydrogen Energy Storage Control in a Smart Energy Network with Flexible Energy Demand using Deep Reinforcement Learning Cephas Samendea, , Zhong Fana, Jun Caob aSchool of Computer Science and Mathematics, Keele University, Newcastle, United Kingdom bEnvironmental Research and Innovation Department, Sustainable Energy Systems Group, Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg Abstract Smart energy networks provide for an e ective means to accommodate high penetrations of variable renewable energy sources like solar and wind, which are key for deep decarbonisation of energy production. However, given the variability of the renewables as well as the energy demand, it is imperative to develop e ective control and energy storage schemes to manage the variable energy generation and achieve desired system economics and environmental goals. In this paper, we introduce a hybrid energy storage system composed of battery and hydrogen energy storage to handle the uncertainties related to electricity prices, renewable energy production and consumption. We aim to improve renewable energy utilisa- tion and minimise energy costs and carbon emissions while ensuring energy reliability and stability within the network. To achieve this, we propose a multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient approach, which is a deep reinforcement learning-based control strategy to optimise the scheduling of the hybrid energy storage system and energy demand in real-time. The proposed approach is model-free and does not require explicit knowledge and rigorous mathematical models of the smart energy network environment. Simulation results based on real-world data show that: (i) integration and optimised operation of the hybrid energy storage system and energy demand reduces carbon emissions by 78.69 , improves cost savings by 23.5 and renewable energy utilisation by over 13.2 compared to other baseline models and (ii) the proposed algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art self-learning algorithms like deep-Q network. Keywords: Deep Reinforcement Learning, Multi-agent Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient, Battery and Hydrogen Energy Storage Systems, Decarbonisation, Renewable Energy, Carbon Emissions, Deep-Q Network. 1. Introduction Globally, the energy system is responsible for about 73.2 of greenhouse gas emissions 1 . Deep reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in the energy system are key for achieving a net-zero greenhouse gas future to limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 C and to prevent the daunt- ing e ects of climate change 2 . In response, the global energy system is undergoing an energy transition from the traditional high-carbon to a low or zero carbon energy sys- tem, mainly driven by enabling technologies like internet of things 3 and high penetration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) like solar and wind 4 . Although RES are key for delivering a decarbonised energy system which is reliable, a ordable and fair for all, the uncertain- ties related to their energy generation as well as energy consumption remains a signi cant barrier, which are un- like the traditional high-carbon system with dispatchable sources 5 . Smart energy networks (SEN) (also known as micro- grids), which are autonomous local energy systems Corresponding author: Email address: c.samende keele.ac.uk (Cephas Samende)equipped with RES, energy storage system (ESS) as well as various types of loads are an e ective means of integrat- ing and managing high penetrations of variable RES in the energy system 6 . Given the uncertainties with RES en- ergy generation as well as the energy demand, ESSs such as a battery energy storage system (BESS) have proved to play a crucial role in managing the uncertainties while providing reliable energy services to the network 7 . How- ever, due to low capacity density, BESS cannot be used to manage at-scale penetration of variable RES 8 . Hydrogen energy storage systems (HESS) are emerging as a promising high capacity density energy storage car- riers to support high penetrations of RES. This is mainly due to falling costs for electricity from RES and improved electrolyzer technologies whose costs have fallen by more than 60 since 2010 9 . During periods of over gener- ation from the RESs, HESSs convert the excess power into hydrogen gas, which can be stored in a tank. The stored hydrogen can be sold externally as fuel such as for use in fuel-cell hybrid electric vehicles 10 or converted into power during periods of minimum generation from the RES to complement other ESSs such as the BESS. The SEN combines power engineering with information technology to manage the generation, storage and con- Preprint submitted to Elsevier August 29, 2022arXiv:2208.12779v1 eess.SY 26 Aug 2022 sumption to provide a number of technical and economic bene ts such as increased utilization of RES in the net- work, reduced energy losses and costs, increased power quality, and enhanced system stability 11 . However, this requires an e ective smart control strategy to optimise the operation of the ESSs and energy demand to achieve the desired system economics and environmental outcomes. Many studies have proposed control strategies that op- timise the operation of ESSs to minimise the utilization costs 12, 13, 14, 15 . Others have proposed control models for optimal sizing and planning of the micro-grid 16, 17, 18 . Other studies have modelled the optimal en- ergy sharing in the micro-grid 19 . Despite a rich his- tory, the proposed control approaches are model-based, in which they require the explicit knowledge and rigorous mathematical models of the micro-grid to capture complex real-world dynamics. Model errors and model complexity makes them di cult to apply and to optimise the ESSs in real-time. Moreover, even if an accurate and e cient model without errors exists, it is often a cumbersome and fallible process to develop and maintain the control ap- proaches in situations where uncertainties of the micro- grid are dynamic in nature 20 . In this paper, we propose a model-free control strat- egy based on reinforcement learning (RL), a machine learning paradigm, in which an agent learns the optimal control policy by interacting with the SEN environment 21 . Through trial and error, the agent selects control actions that maximise a cumulative reward (e.g. rev- enue) based on its observation of the environment.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	arXiv:2003.06298v1 eess.SY 13 Mar 2020Modelling of Variable Speed Hydropower for Grid Integration Studies T.I. Reigstad K. Uhlen Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), NO- 7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: tor.inge.reigstad ntnu.no) Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), NO- 7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: kjetil.uhlen ntnu.no) Abstract: This paperproposesa hydraulicmodel based on the Eulerturbine eq uations suitable for the purpose of grid integration studies of variable speed hydro power (VSHP). The work was motivated by the need to assesshow the dynamic performancemigh t changewhen a hydropower plant is operated at variable speed. The Eulermodel considers the water ﬂow dependency on the turbine rotational speed and calculates the turbine power as a non-linear function of water ﬂow, turbine rotational speed and guide vane opening. A waterway model is included, based on the 1-D momentum and continuity balance for a water-ﬁlled elementa ry pipe to simulate water hammer, mass oscillation and tunnel losses. These detailed and accu rate models are necessary for recognising possible limitations in the hydraulic system, to model t he turbine power and rotational speed correctly and thereby to be able to maximise powe r delivery for system control purposes. All Eulermodel parameters can be derived from the physical dimensions of t he turbine and waterway, ensuring easy implementation. State-spac e representation of the Euler model is approximated by utilising a lumped-parameter equivalent of t he penstock dynamics. Dynamic simulations and eigenvalue analysis show the strength of the Eulermodel compared to conventional hydropower models. Keywords: Modelling and simulation of power systems, power systems stability, d ynamic interaction of power plants, control system design, control of r enewable energy resources, optimal operation and control of power systems 1. INTRODUCTION Variable speed hydropower (VSHP) is a suitable source for delivering additional ancillary services to the grid by actively utilising the stored kinetic energy in the turbine and generator. By allowing the turbine rotational speed to deviate temporarily from its optimal speed, the VSHP can vary its output power quickly due to the converter technology, see Basic et al. (2018). In the ﬁrst few seconds after a step response at the output power reference, the energy is delivered to or from the kinetic energy in the turbine and generator (Figure 1). Subsequently, the governor will react to the deviation in the turbine rotational speed and adjust the guide vane opening and thereby the mechanical power Pmto regain the optimal speed of the turbine. With that, the VSHP can contribute more eﬀectively to primary frequency control and the maintainingofgridstability. TheVSHP plantswill be able to provide fast frequency reserves in both production and in pumping mode, and the eﬃciency and operating range will potentially be widerthan forconventionalhydropower and other variable renewable sources without storage, see Valavi and Nysveen (2018). This work was supported by the Research council of Norway und er Grant257588 and by the Norwegian Research Centre forHydrop ower Technology (HydroCen).Fig. 1. Dynamic response when the VSHP output power is increased from 0.5 p.u. to 0.9 p.u. at t 5s The turbine and hydraulic system, including waterways, will experience new and diﬀerent operating conditions whenrunningatvariablespeed.Whenanalysingthepower system impacts and potential beneﬁts of variable speed operation, we need to know which dynamic constraints and limitations concerning the technology need to be taken into account. Thus, in this context, there are several good reasons for revisiting the modelling and analysis of hydropower plants, which is the aim of this paper. A suﬃciently detailed model of the system is needed to investigate the interactions between the VSHP plant and the grid: How can variable speed operation beneﬁt the security and ﬂexibility in power system operation? How can we explore the control possibilities from a system perspective while considering the limitations given by the water turbine system? This requires the development of non-linear time-domain simulation models that include tunnels, with physical constraints on water ﬂows, tur- bine, governor, generator with the magnetising system, generator-side converter and grid-side converter, and a representative test grid. This paper will focus on the turbine side of the generator by comparing four diﬀerent turbine models, two of them including a waterway model, to examine how accurate the models are when subjected to large variations in turbine rotational speed. The hydraulic system is modelled in diﬀerent ways, de- pending onapplicationandperformancerequirements.For example, the conduits in the hydraulic system can be modelled as electrical equivalent circuits, as presented in Souzaetal.(1999);Nicolet(2007)orastravellingwaves,as suggested in Demello et al. (1992). These models can con- sider both penstock, surge tank and tunnel dynamics and losses. Hydroelectric turbine-governor simulation models for commercial simulation programs are reviewed in Kori- tarov et al. (2013). Except for the Hygovm model, most of the existing models only consider the water starting time when modelling the conducts. The simplest turbine models assume that mechanical power equals the water ﬂow in per unit, see Koritarov etal.(2013)andKundur(1994).Hygovandsimilarmodels in Koritarov et al. (2013) do also consider variation in the head, the damping and the losses by subtracting the no-load water ﬂow. These models are linearised at the operational point, as seen in Saras ua et al. (2015) or a linearized model can be found from the turbine character- istic chart at the operational point, see Fang et al. (2008). Hill diagrams are used to include the turbine eﬃciency in Belhadji et al. (2011). Turbine characteristics are used in Pannatier et al. (2010) and Padoan et al. (2010) to ﬁnd the torque and ﬂow when rotational speed and guide vane opening are given. The Euler turbine equations of Nielsen (2015) also consider the rotational speed. A one- dimensional numerical model of a Francis turbine based on the Euler equations, which includes a waterway model is presented in Giosio et al. (2016). This model is tuned with test data and utilises look-up tables to ﬁnd churning losses and is utilised in a VSHP model with a doubly-fed induction machine (DFIM) in Nag and Lee (2018). Fang et al. (2008) present basic mathematical models for typical hydroelectric power plants and discuss how a turbine speed governor should be optimally tuned and how the physical
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	European Energy Vision 2060: Charting Diverse Pathways for Europe s Energy Transition Mostafa Barania, , Konstantin Lö fflerb,a, Pedro Crespo del Granadoa, Nikita Moskalenkob, Evangelos Panosc, Franziska M. Ho ffartd,e, Christian von Hirschhausenb, Maria Kannavouf, Hans Auerg,a, Karlo Hainschb, Tatiana González Grandóna, Siri Mathisenh, Asgeir Tomasgarda aDepartment of Industrial Economics and Technology Management, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway bWorkgroup for Infrastructure Policy, Technische Universität Berlin (TU Berlin), Berlin, Germany cEnergy Economics Group, Laboratory for Energy Systems Analysis, PSI Centers for Nuclear Engineering Sciences and Energy Environmental Sciences, VIlligen PSI, Switzerland dKassel Institute for Sustainability, University of Kassel, Kassel, Germany eSociological Research Institute Goettingen e.V ., University of Goettingenl, Goettingenl, Germany fE3-Modelling SA. (A Ricardo Company), Athens, Greece gEnergy Economics Group (EEG), Technische Universität Wien (TU Wien), Vienna, Austria hDepartment of Energy Systems, SINTEF Energy Research, Trondheim, Norway Abstract Europe is warming at the fastest rate of all continents, experiencing a temperature increase of about 1 C higher than the corresponding global increase. Aiming to be the first climate-neutral continent by 2050 under the European Green Deal, Europe requires an in-depth understanding of the potential energy transi- tion pathways. In this paper, we develop four qualitative long-term scenarios covering the European energy landscape, considering key uncertainty pillars categorized under social, technological, economic, politi- cal, and geopolitical aspects. First, we place the scenarios in a three-dimensional space defined by Social dynamics, Innovation, and Geopolitical instabilities. These scenarios are brought to life by defining their narratives and focus areas according to their location in this three-dimensional space. The scenarios envi- sion diverse futures and include distinct features. The EU Trinity scenario pictures how internal divisions among EU member states, in the context of global geopolitical instability, a ffect the EU climate targets. TheREPowerEU scenario outlines the steps needed for a self-su fficient, independent European energy system by 2050. The Go RES scenario examines the feasibility of achieving carbon neutrality earlier than 2050 given favourable uncertain factors. The NECP Essentials scenario extends current national energy and climate plans until 2060 to assess their role in realizing climate neutrality. The scenarios are extended by incorporating policies and economic factors and detailed in a Qualitative to Quantitative (Q2Q) matrix, link- ing narratives to quantification. Finally, two scenarios are quantified to illustrate the quantification process. All the scenarios are in the process of being quantified and will be openly available and reusable. Keywords: Long-term energy scenarios, European energy vision, energy transition, scenario narrative development, scenario quantification, EU EnVis-2060. Contact Information: Email address: mostafa.barani ntnu.no (Mostafa Barani) Preprint submitted to arXiv. This manuscript is a preprint and has not yet been peer-reviewed. January 23, 2025arXiv:2501.12993v1 eess.SY 22 Jan 2025 Acronyms CCS Carbon Capture Storage. CCU Carbon Capture and Utilization. DACS Direct Air Capture and Storage. EC European Commission. ESS Energy Storage Solutions. ETS Emissions Trading System. EU European Union. EU EnVis-2060 European Energy Vision 2060. GECO Global Energy and Climate Outlook. GHG Greenhouse Gases. IEA International Energy Agency. IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. IRENA International Renewable Energy Agency. MS Member-State. NECP National Energy and Climate Plan. Q2Q Qualitative to Quantitative. R DResearch and Development. RER Renewable Energy Resources. SSP Shared Socioeconomic Pathway. STEEP Social, Technological, Economic, Environmental, and Political. STEP Social, Technological, Economic, and Political. STEP GSTEP Geopolitics. TYNDP Ten-Year Network Development Plan. WAM With Additional Measures. WEC World Energy Council. WEM With Existing Measures. 2 1. Introduction The alarm bells of climate change are ringing louder than ever. We are witnessing an alarming accel- eration of the ecological crisis and climate emergency, marked by record-breaking high temperatures and extreme weather events attributed to climate change worldwide 1, 2 . The COP28 stocktake in December 2023 indicated that global e fforts are insu fficient to meet the Paris Agreement s objective of limiting the rise in global temperature to 1.5 C, making it imperative for nations to exhibit significant progress by 2030 to avert further climate degradation 3 . The European nations are no exception. In fact, the European Union (EU), aiming to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050 as outlined in the European Green Deal 4 , stands at a critical juncture in its energy policy landscape. This transition is driven by the urgent need to achieve ambitious climate targets while navigating a complicated geopolitical landscape 5 . Achieving such ambitious goals necessitates deep insights into the future energy landscape in Europe, as well as planning appropriate policies and strategies. In response, the European Commission has unveiled comprehensive strategies and policies to address both immediate and long-term energy needs. One of these strategies is the REPowerEU plan, launched to bolster the EU s energy independence and accelerate the shift towards renewable energy sources in light of geopolitical disruptions caused by Russia s invasion of Ukraine 6 . This initiative works in tandem with theFit for 55 package, which seeks to reduce net Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions by at least 55 by 2030 7 , and the Clean Energy for All Europeans package, which requires each EU member state to deliver 10-year National Energy and Climate Plan (NECP) plans 8 . The Fit for 55 goals include a reduction in Emissions Trading System (ETS) and non-ETS sectors with 61 and 40 , respectively, compared to 2005 levels 7 . Navigating the complexities of policy-making and planning, especially over the long term, is signif- icantly challenged by the uncertainties (e.g. geopolitical, technological adoption and breakthroughs) that shape energy transitions. To address these challenges, scenario techniques o ffer a strategic framework that fosters insight and supports decision-making in the face of deep uncertainty 9 . By exploring various pathways for energy transition, scenarios take into account a range of factors, including technological ad- vancements, societal trends, and political dynamics. The European Commission has long utilized scenario analysis (e.g., 10, 11, 12 ) to evaluate the potential impacts of di fferent actions, guiding amendments to existing directives, setting climate and energy targets, and introducing new policies. Due to their complexity, long-term energy scenarios typically include
__label__energy	arXiv:2105.10402v1 eess.SP 1 Mar 20211 Controllable Transmission Networks Under Demand Uncertainty with Modular FACTS Alireza Soroudi Abstract The transmission system operators (TSOs) are responsible t o provide secure and efﬁcient access to the transmission sys tem for all stakeholders. This task is gradually getting challe nging due to the demand growth, demand uncertainty, rapid ch anges in generation mix, and market policies. Traditionally, the TSOs try to maximize the technical performance of the transm ission network via building new overhead lines or physical hardeni ng. However, obtaining public acceptance for building new l ines is not an easy step in this procedure. For this reason, the TSO s try to capture the capabilities of existing assets. This pa per investigates the use of modular FACTS devices (to alter the l ine characteristics) for improving the capability of trans mission network in serving the uncertain demand without the need for building new overhead lines. The proposed method considers the uncertainty of demands and controls the utilization of e xisting transmission assets. The mathematical results obt ained are validated with a complete non-linear simulation model of th ree transmission networks. Index Terms Transmission network, Power ﬂow controller, Congestion, F lexibility. NOMENCLATURE The notations and symbols used throughout the paper are stat ed in this section. Abbreviations: MF Membership Function M-FACTS Modular Flexible AC Transmission system P2H Power to hydrogen. RES Renewable Energy Sources TSO Transmission System Operator Sets: ΩB Set of network buses. Ωℓ Set of network lines. ΩG Set of generating units. Variables: αf(P) Forecasted membership function describing the uncertain d emand αc(P) Calculated membership function describing the uncertain d emand considering technical constraints LR Load repression Pα i,D Uncertain active demand at bus i. Pα i,g Uncertain active output of generator at bus i. δα i Uncertain delta angle of bus i. Parameters: αLR min Degree of load repression for load reduction αLR max Degree of load repression for load increase βmin i,j Minimum ﬂexibility of M-FATCS for changing the line impedan ce of the line connecting bus i to j. βmax i,j Minimum ﬂexibility of M-FATCS for changing the line impedan ce of the line connecting bus i to j. Alireza Soroudi(alireza.soroudi ucd.ie) is with the Scho ol of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University Co llege Dublin, Ireland. This work was conducted at the Energy Institute, University College Dubl in, Ireland. This publication has emanated from research co nducted with ﬁnancial support from Science Foundation Ireland, Grant Number SFI 15 SPP E312 5. 2 Pmin i,g Minimum operating limit of the generator connected to bus i. Pmax i,g Maximum operating limit of the generator connected to bus i. Pα i,D Predicted active demand at bus i. ˇPα i,D Predicted lower bound active demand at bus i. ˆPα i,D Predicted upper bound active demand at bus i. Bi,j Susceptance of the line connecting bus i to j. Plim i,j Thermal limit of line connecting bus i to j. τ Total available M-FACTS ﬂexibility. wi Weight factor indicating the importance of demand at bus i. I. I NTRODUCTION A. Motivations THE role of transmission system operator is to keep the securi ty and efﬁciency of the transmission network. The resilient transmission network should be able to deal with high impact low probability events 1 . The events can be named as natural disasters, cyber-attacks 2 , physical attacks, s imultaneous multiple component outages and etc. Another ev ent that has the potential to cause cascading outages is transmissio n line overloading. In case, the throughput of a line is beyon d the seasonal thermal limits then the protection system might ca use an outage of this line and naturally the ﬂow will be transf erred to other parallel paths (if they exist). Another solution mi ght be load shedding to alleviate the line s power ﬂow. Howev er, it is not a desirable or cheap solution for the customers. The ad equacy of the transmission network in supplying the demand c an be affected by different factors such as line impedance, the rmal capacity, and network topology. Building new overhead lines (to address these problems) usually provokes the protest of residents mainly due to the land-use conﬂicts, noise, aesth etic concerns, and safety issues 3 . TSO should be able to efﬁciently use the existing assets to en sure the ability of the transmission system to meet reasonab le demands 4 , 5 . Some important factors should be taken in t o account namely, the ideal solution should be rapidly appli cable, capable of dealing with uncertainties 6 , and ﬁnally, comm unity acceptance. The Modular Flexible AC Transmission Sys tem (M-FACTS) devices can improve asset utilization and reliev ing the technical constraints by controlling the power ﬂow i n the transmission system 7 . The M-FACTS 8 are modular uni ts that can be installed on some transmission lines and they are capable of pushing the power from heavily loaded lines to lightly loaded lines in the inductive mode of operation. In capacitive mode, the M-FACTS (installed on less loaded line s) will absorb the power from other lines. The M-FACTS device s have some advantages over the FACTS devices such as fast inst allation, redeployment possibility, and more ﬂexibility f or changing the line impedance 9 . B. Literature review The M-FACTS have been studied in different power system cont exts. For example, Cyber-Security constrained Placement of FACTS Devices 10 based on topological characteristics of the underlying physical graphs of transmission networks. Resolving intact and post-contingency overloading 11 us ing a DC-OPF and Power Transfer Distribution Factors. Power quality enhancement in presence of RES technologies 12 Detecting False Data Injection Attacks on Power Grid State E stimation 13 . Phase current balancing 14 using the existing logistics i nfrastructure 15 . This industrial project assessed the i mpact of M-FACTS on the 63-kV grid along with the Wi-Fi communication system between the onsite modules and a 3G network linking the site to a web-hosted platform installed in regio
__label__energy	NUCLEAR ENERGY ENERGY SUPPLY Future energy supply in Germany Can nuclear energy contribute to the energy transition? Axel Kleidon Harald Lesch In the course of the energy transition, energy generation from nuclear power - through nuclear ﬁssion and perhaps in the future through nuclear fusion - is often proposed as an alternative or supplement to renewable energy sources. There are already good reasons why electricity generation from nuclear energy is signiﬁcantly more expensive than other forms of generation, while increasing dryness as a result of climate change is generally calling into question the reliability of thermal power plants. Nuclear energy is therefore unlikely to play a role in a future energy supply that relies on low costs and reliability. The current restructuring of our energy system relies on renewable energies, especially photovoltaics, wind energy and biomass. But it also needs storage technologies such as pumped storage power plants, batteries or chemical storage such as green hydrogen to compensate for diﬀerences in energy generation and consumption. Nuclear energy and nuclear fusion 1 are also occasionally brought into play as alternatives, especially because they are intended to cover the base load. But how does this ﬁt in with the variable sources of solar and wind? Does it make sense to rely on nuclear energy again? In this article, we focus on a few key and objective reasons that speak against nuclear energy and nuclear fusion. We primarily look at the costs, i.e. the goal of creating the cheapest possible energy system of the future that is free of fossil fuels. But the availability of water, which is needed to cool thermal power plants, is also critical. Other goals often play a role in nuclear energy, such as military use - as with existing and potential nuclear powers - or the goal of becoming independent of energy imports from abroad in order to avoid being blackmailed - especially in Eastern European countries. In Germany, however, we can achieve the latter goal by using solar and wind power. Costs of energy production The key to determining the contribution of a form of energy generation to society s energy needs is an estimate of its costs, in this case the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) . To calculate this, the investment costs for construction (I), the maintenance costs (M) and the costs for fuel (F) are of 113 Translated version, published originally in German. Cite as: Kleidon, A., and Lesch, H. (2024) Kann Kernenergie zur Energiewende beitragen? , Physik in unserer Zeit, available online. https: doi.org 10.1002 piuz.202401718 added together over the lifetime. We divide this by the expected electricity yield (Y) over the lifetime. The equation for the LCOE is thus obtained (in units of kWh or Euro kWh): LCOE Sum of all costs Expected yield . (1) The index i describes the year in which the costs are incurred. The totals run over the expected lifetime n in years. The expressions in the denominators in the form (1 r )i describe the weighting by the discount rate r. This economic concept mainly describes the eﬀects of interest rates and inﬂation. The discount factor can be used to calculate future costs or income back to today. This discount factor is used to weight the costs and beneﬁts over the lifetime. Other costs that arise during operation, such as for CO 2 emission certiﬁcates from conventional power plants, but also the disposal costs of nuclear power plants, can also be added here. Current values of the production costs for various types of electricity generation are summarised in Figure 1 2, 3 . Let s take a closer look at the expression for the electricity generation costs. The costs are usually dominated by the investment costs I that arise from building a power plant, a wind farm, a solar park or the like. In addition, there are the running costs for operation, maintenance and repair. In the case of conventional power plants, there are also the costs for the fuel - coal, gas, or ﬁssile or ni 1(Ii Mi Fi) (1 r)i ni 1Yi (1 r)i of 213 FIG. 1 ELECTRICITY GENERATION COSTS Comparison of electricity generation costs according to Lazard (blue, international, in US cents per kWh) and Fraunhofer (red, focused on Germany, in Euro cents per kWh). Storage includes various forms of storage in the form of mechanical, thermal, or chemical energy. This summary (simplified according to 2 and 3 ) excludes subsidies that arise, for example, from the storage of nuclear waste, but are paid for by the state of Germany. The lower costs of rooftop photovoltaics are probably due to experience and lower installation costs in Germany. fusion material for nuclear or fusion reactors - or for CO 2 emissions. With renewable energies such as wind and solar, however, these costs for the fuel or emissions do not arise. These costs are divided by the electricity yield Y, described by the denumerator in equation (1), to determine the average electricity production costs. The electricity yield in turn is described by the of 313 FIG. 2 COST DEVELOPMENT Cost evolution of photovoltaics (red, in 2022 US dollars) and nuclear power plants (blue, in 1998 French francs) in the past (data: Our World in Data 4 , adapted from various sources, 5 ) . capacity of the plant, i.e. how much electricity a plant can generate at most (in megawatts, MW), and the capacity factor, which describes the utilisation. The product of installed capacity and capacity factor then gives the electricity yield. In a thermal power plant, the type of management determines the capacity factor; in renewable energies such as photovoltaics and wind energy, it is mainly determined by the availability of the sun and wind. We can see that photovoltaics and wind are already cheaper to generate electricity than conventional power plants. We can also see from equation (1) that conventional power plants generate cheap electricity especially when they run continuously, i.e. when they have a high capacity factor. Base load power plants
__label__energy	Spatio-temporal trends in the propagation and capacity of low-carbon hydrogen projects Nick Jamesa, Max Menziesb aSchool of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia bBeijing Institute of Mathematical Sciences and Applications, Tsinghua University, Beijing 101408, China Abstract This paper uses established and recently introduced methods from the applied mathematics and statistics literature to study trends in the propagation and capacity of low-carbon hydrogen projects over the past two decades. First, we judiciously apply a regression model to estimate the association between various predictors and the capacity of global hydrogen projects. Next, we turn to the geographic propagation of low-carbon hydrogen projects, where we apply a recently introduced method to explore the geographic variance of hydrogen projects over time. Then, we demonstrate that most geographic regions display linear growth in cumulative plants and apply distance correlation to determine the nonlinear dependence between the two most proliﬁc regions - North America and Europe. Finally, we study relationships between the propagation and capacity of green vs blue hydrogen over time, speciﬁcally, the time-varying regional consistency between the contribution of green vs blue plants to the total number and capacity of hydrogen plants. Keywords: Hydrogen, Renewable energy, Time series analysis, Spatio-temporal analysis, Nonlinear dynamics 1. Introduction Hydrogen has great potential as an alternative fuel source and may play a role in the world s coordinated attempt to reach net-zero carbon emissions during this century. Hydrogen could be used for numerous purposes, including industrial applications, transport, heating and energy production. By mass, hydrogen contains more than twice the energy potential of natural gas. However, hydrogen in its pure form ( H2gas) does not exist naturally on earth. It must be synthesised via a variety of diﬀerent procedures. The production of hydrogen is classiﬁed by colours according to its mode of preparation. Green hydrogen refers to production techniques that do not Email address: max.menzies alumni.harvard.edu (Max Menzies) 1arXiv:2110.13476v2 physics.soc-ph 5 Apr 2022 generate any greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This is, of course, the ideal method of production to forward the goal of an alternative energy source that does not contribute further to global warming. Typically, green hydrogen plants use renewable sources of energy (such as solar) to extract hydrogen via the electrolysis of water. This is a desirable process, however the energy production capacity of green plants has been quite limited. On the other hand, black, brown and grey hydrogen refer to production techniques that use black coal, brown coal and natural gas respectively, generating harmful gases including carbon dioxide (CO 2) and monoxide. Blue hydrogen is deﬁned as the generation using natural gas, followed by carbon capture and storage (CSS). This is not a truly zero-emissions process, as not all generated GHGs can be captured. There is signiﬁcant variability in the countries level of sophistication with regards to alternative and clean energy. Many European countries such as Germany have been able to reduce carbon dioxide emissions over the past 50 years, primarily driven by their willingness to drive the adoption of new technologies, often with signiﬁcant initial cost. Less willing to wear the immediate economic consequences, many developing countries, as well as the United States and Australia, have been more hesitant to commit to green and alternative energy sources. Instead, they continue to utilise energy sources that have already reached economies of scale. With the increase in global interest towards alternative energy sources in recent years, a great deal of research has focused on the viability and eﬃciency of hydrogen production. Early research into the eﬃciency of hydrogen fuel cells dates back several decades 1 3 . Since then, research on hydrogen production has taken numerous directions. 4 and 5 each provide a review article on diﬀerent forms of electrolysis. 6 provides a detailed examination of alkaline electrolysis (ALK), while 7 9 survey successive advances in proton exchange membrane electrolysis (PEM). 10 compares advantages and disadvantages of ALK and PEM in detail. Morerecentresearchhasexploredseveraldiﬀerentmeanstoenhanceeﬃciency of hydrogen production and make use of diﬀerent renewable energy sources. 11 explores the use of geothermic energy to power hydrogen electrolysis; 12 investigates the use of micro-organisms (biocatalysed electrolysis). 13 discusses advances in such microbial electrolysis cells. More recently, 14 outlines how electronic waste may be utilised to generate metallic components for a process called chemical looping reforming. Regarding increased eﬃciency, there have been many technological advances, both novel and incremental. 15 examines means to reduce energy consumption during electrolysis; 16 discusses the diﬀerent eﬃciency of diﬀerent electrodes, with further advances explored by 17 . In particular, 18 analyses electrode overpotential during ALK electrolysis, while 19 explores optimal conﬁgurations of electrolysis under several diﬀerent conditions. 20 investigates improved and modern electrocatalysts, 21 analyses the use of hybrid structures for highly eﬃcient water electrolysis, combining both morphological features and electrochemical properties, while various researchers have studied cutting-edge catalysts 22 24 . 2 In addition, numerous articles discuss the potential for hydrogen production in one region at a time (usually a single country), both in reference to its natural resources and policy environment. Analysis has covered countries as diverse as the USA 25 , China 26 , Mexico 27 , Argentina 28 , the United Kingdom 29 , South Korea 29 , Morocco 30 , the Philippines 31 , and various countries throughout the European Union 32 . Whereas the aforementioned existing papers have been more technological or geopolitical in focus, our paper is a mathematical study of trends in the rollout and prevalence of low-carbon hydrogen plants by both technology and location. We make heavy use of time series analysis , which has been extensively applied to various ﬁelds such as epidemiology 33 38 , ﬁnance 39 47 , digital currencies 48 and even sport 49,50 . We are unaware of any instance where time series analysis has been applied to the rollout of hydrogen plants over time and by location. We study the changing propagation and capacity of hydrogen plants over time, with a particular interest in the increasing potential of green hydrogen plants, which emit zero carbon. We
__label__energy	THIS PAPER HAS BEEN ACCEPTED BY IEEE TRANS ON POWER SYSTEMS. COPYRIGHT OF THE PAPER IS RESERVED BY IEEE 1 Task-Aware Machine Unlearning and Its Application in Load Forecasting Wangkun Xu, Student Member, IEEE , and Fei Teng, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Data privacy and security have become a non- negligible factor in load forecasting. Previous researches mainly focus on training stage enhancement. However, once the model is trained and deployed, it may need to forget (i.e., remove the impact of) part of training data if the these data are found to be malicious or as requested by the data owner. This paper introduces the concept of machine unlearning which is specifically designed to remove the influence of part of the dataset on an already trained forecaster. However, direct unlearning inevitably degrades the model generalization ability. To balance between unlearning completeness and model performance, a performance- aware algorithm is proposed by evaluating the sensitivity of local model parameter change using influence function and sample re- weighting. Furthermore, we observe that the statistical criterion such as mean squared error, cannot fully reflect the operation cost of the downstream tasks in power system. Therefore, a task-aware machine unlearning is proposed whose objective is a trilevel optimization with dispatch and redispatch problems considered. We theoretically prove the existence of the gradient of such an objective, which is key to re-weighting the remaining samples. We tested the unlearning algorithms on linear, CNN, and MLP-Mixer based load forecasters with a realistic load dataset. The simulation demonstrates the balance between unlearning completeness and operational cost. All codes can be found at https: github.com xuwkk task_aware_machine_unlearning. Index Terms Data privacy and security, load forecasting, ma- chine unlearning, end-to-end learning, power system operation, influence function. NOMENCLATURE Abbreviations CNN Convolutional Neural Network MAPE Mean Absolute Percentage Error MLP Multi Layer Perceptron MSE Mean Squared Error NN Neural Network PA TA-MU Performance Task Aware Machine Unlearning SO System Operator Machine Unlearning θ ,θ mod,θ remain Optimal Model Parameters f( ;θ) Load forecast model yi,ˆyiThe ground-truth and forecast load of the i-th sample ℓi( ),ℓi test( )The training and test loss criterion of the i-th sample ϵiThe weight on the i-th sample Wangkun Xu and Fei Teng are with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Imperial College London, UK (Corresponding author: Fei Teng , email: f.teng imperial.ac.uk).λ1,λ The 1-norm and inf-norm limits on the sample weights variation D,Dtest,Dunlearn ,Dremain The training, test, unlearn, and re- main dataset L( ),Ltest( )The training and test cost function N,Ntest The size of training and test dataset Power System Operation Pg,Pls,PgsThe vector of generator set-points, load shed- dings, and energy storages Qg,cg Second and first order coefficient of the gener- ator cost cgs2,cgs Second and first order coefficient of energy storage cls2,cls Second and first order coefficient of load shed- ding I. I NTRODUCTION A. Data Privacy and Security in Load Forecasting ACCURATE load forecasting is essential for the security and economic operation of the power system. The de- terministic 1 and probabilistic 2 methods are two main categories. Recently, machine and deep learning algorithms have been widely applied to better retrieve spatial and temporal information, which certainly benefit the progression of load forecasting 3 . To fulfill the training purpose, large amount of data is collected from individuals, which challenges the integrity of data ownership and security. In power system, the system operator (SO) collects and transfers individual data for various operational purposes. However, this arrangement has raised privacy concerns, as individual load data are sensitive and can be targeted to retrace personal identity and behavior 4 . From the perspective of data security, data collected from unsecured sources are prone to errors and adversaries. For example, the authors of 5 benchmark how poor training data could degrade forecast accuracy by introducing random noise. Furthermore, data poisoning attack is specifically designed to contaminate the training dataset to prevent the load forecaster from being accurate at the test stage 6 . Most of the existing work designs a preventive training algorithm to address concerns about data privacy and security. For example, federated learning is studied, in which each training participant only shares the trained parameters with the central server 7 . In 8 , a fully distributed training framework has been proposed in which each participant only shares the parameters with his neighbors. Differential privacy is another privacy-preserving technique used for load forecastingarXiv:2308.14412v2 cs.LG 11 Mar 2024 THIS PAPER HAS BEEN ACCEPTED BY IEEE TRANS ON POWER SYSTEMS. COPYRIGHT OF THE PAPER IS RESERVED BY IEEE 2 to avoid identifying the individual 9 . To combat poisoning attack, federated learning enhanced with differential privacy is developed in 10 . By weight-clipping and adding noise to the central parameter update, the global model can be resistant to inference attacks to some extent. In addition, gradient quantization is applied, where each participant only uploads the sign of the local gradient 11 . B. Machine Unlearning However, training stage prevention is not sufficient when the post-action of removing the impact of those data from the trained forecaster is needed. From privacy concerns, in addition to the right to share the data, many national and regional regulations have certified the consumers right to forget 12 , such as the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the recent US s California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). That is, consumers are eligible to request to destroy their personal records at any stage of the service, including the encoded information in the trained model 13 . Meanwhile, the SO may not be aware of the data defect until the model has been trained and deployed. Obviously, a straightforward approach to removing the impact of part of the dataset is to retrain the model from scratch on the remaining data. However, retraining can be computationally expensive and sometimes infeasible due to the lack of the original dataset. In this context, machine unlearning (MU) has been intro- duced in machine learning especially the computer vision community to study the problem of
__label__energy	Programmable Turbine Failsafe System for Pico-Hydroelectric Power in the Nepal Himalayas James Hsi-Jen Yeh, Rick Sturdivant, Member, IEEE, Mark Stambaugh, Alex Zahnd Dept. of Eng. and Computer Science Azusa Pacific University 901 E Alosta Ave, Azusa, CA 91702 RIDS-USA RIDS-Switzerland Abstract In this paper, we describe a novel turbine failsafe system designed for a pico-hydroelectric power generation. We designed and built a pico-hydroelectric system in a remote rural Himalayan village. We developed a Prioritized Load Control System (PLCS) that diverts excess electrical power to useful purposes such as heating up bath water and the air in the community center when the electrical demand from the village is low; instead of dumping the excess electricity back into the river in the form of heat. A critical part of the PLCS system is the failsafe mechanism where the turbines and electrical components on the grid are protected in case any part of the PLCS system stops functioning, possibly intermittently. Our novel failsafe system contains the following enhancements compared to previous systems: (1) adjustable threshold voltage, (2) controllable fractional power diversion with adjustable parameters, (3) automatic reset with adjustable parameters. In addition, the failsafe subsystem uses the widely available Arduino platform and programming environment, and JSON for human readable and writable communications, demonstrating their suitability for critical applications. (Abstract) Keywords Renewable Energy, hydroelectric power, pico-hydro, green technology, turbine failsafe, Arduino, JSON (key words) I. INTRODUCTION As a central part of the pilot pico-hydroelectric project in the remote Himalayan village of Moharigaun in the Jumla district of Nepal 1-3 , we developed a Prioritized Dump Load Control (PLCS) system, to fully utilize the excess electrical power when the electrical demand from the village is low. When the electrical usage falls, for example during the night, the speed and voltage of the hydroelectric turbine generator will rise, causing damage to the turbines and connected electrical devices 4 . A dump load circuit is typically used to heat up resistors and dump the excess electricity back to the river. The purpose of the PLCS is to create value for the villagers with the excess power, such as heating up water tanks for shower water and biogas digesters. The users of the system can set their own priority, based on their needs, regarding the distribution of the excess power, in such a way that low priority tanks are given power only when high priority tanks have reached their target temperature. The AC Load Controller subsystem of the PLCS, which provides computer-controlled power to multiple useful loads dispersed throughout the village as excess power becomes available, is described in a separate article 5 . As a part of the hydroelectric generation system, a failsafe is installed close to the turbine to protect the turbines and the electric components connected to the grid. Previously, a crowbar circuit is often installed to protect the turbine from damage if the turbine speed and voltages rise uncontrollably 6 due to a reduction in electrical load. However, the crowbar circuit requires manual reset. Also, when it is activated, power generation is interrupted. Previous efforts have been developed to provide electronic control of the dump load using programmable logic controllers and microcomputers 7, 8 . We designed and created a new failsafe subsystem that aims to achieve the following: 1) Threshold voltages that can be adjusted locally or remotely. 2) Power dumping that is a fraction of the generated power, which is a (linear, proportional-integral-derivative , or non-linear) function of the voltage above the threshold, with parameters and functions adjustable and selectable locally or remotely. This has the potential of smoothing out the voltage fluctuation in the turbine and in the grid, while continuing supplying power to the grid. 3) Automatic reset via fractional dump power back-off to mitigate the need for manual reset, with parameters adjustable locally or remotely. This additionally smooth out potential voltage fluctuations. As a final safeguard, a crowbar circuit is additionally deployed in case the failsafe subsystem fails. This paper describes the novel failsafe subsystem, which is based on the Arduino platform and programmed using the Arduino Integrated Development Environment, and uses JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) for communications. II. FAILSAFE HARDWARE A. Platform For this project, we chose the Arduino Mega platform. The Arduino Mega is a widely available board based on the Atmel ATMega2560 microcontroller 9 . It is low cost, and includes 54 digital I O pins, out of which 15 can simulate analog output via PWM (pulse-width modulation), and 16 analog input pins, which are required for this project. It contains 256kB of flash memory, 8kB of SRAM and runs at 16MHz. The Arduino Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is one of the most popular open-source development systems. It is extremely stable and is very well documented and supported, with open-source user-contributed libraries for many common task and specialized components. TABLE I. FAILSAFE CARRIER BOARD SUBSYSTEMS The Arduino-compatible systems have very fast boot time, on the order of 5 seconds, as compared to other systems such as the Raspberry Pi, where the boot time can be 30 seconds or more. In critical power control applications, slow boot times after a power failure or system crash can be disastrous. In addition, the Arduino system is essentially a single-threaded execution environment. Therefore, all program control flow and critical timing are in control of the programmer. This is as opposed to platforms running an operating system such as Linux, where the operating system and services can introduce complexity and timing uncertainty and instability to critical operations. A carrier board was designed and fabricated with all of the external components, including communications chips, control chips, and sensing chips, on which the Arduino Mega board mates directly via its header pins. This created a mechanically and electrically stable interface. The subsystems on the carrier board are listed in Table 1. B. Dump Load Drivers The dump load uses high-voltage STGWT40 IGBT s (Integrated Gate Bipolar Transistor) to divert excess power to each of the 3 banks of dump resistors. The IGBT s
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Multi-Objective Control Co-design Using Graph Based Optimization for Offshore Wind Farm Grid Integration Himanshu Sharma , Wei Wang, Bowen Huang, Thiagarajan Ramachandran, and Veronica Adetola Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA, USA Abstract Offshore wind farms have emerged as a popular renewable energy source that can generate substantial electric power with a low environmental impact. However, integrating these farms into the grid poses significant complexities. To address these issues, optimal-sized energy storage can provide potential solutions and help improve the reliability, efficiency, and flexibility of the grid. Nevertheless, limited studies have attempted to perform energy storage sizing while including design and operations (i.e., control co-design) for offshore wind farms. As a result, the present work develops a control co-design optimization formulation to optimize multiple objectives and identify Pareto optimal solutions. The graph-based optimization framework is proposed to address the complexity of the system, allowing the optimization problem to be decomposed for large power systems. The IEEE-9 bus system is treated as an onshore AC grid with two offshore wind farms connected via a multi- terminal DC grid for our use case. The developed methodology successfully identifies the Pareto front during the control co- design optimization, enabling decision-makers to select the best compromise solution for multiple objectives. I. INTRODUCTION Offshore wind farms (OWF) are gaining increasing atten- tion worldwide for sustainable energy development. In 2022, 8,385 MW of new projects were commissioned for offshore wind energy globally 1 . In the U.S., offshore wind energy production capacity potential reached 52,687 MW in 2023, showing a growth of 15 1 1 . With the increasing power extraction from OWFs, it becomes important to develop capabilities to transmit this power efficiently. Most modern OWFs are developed with multi-terminal DC (MTDC) grid with modular multilevel converters (MMC) due to various advantages over high-voltage alternating current (HV AC) lines. A detailed review of MMC-MTDC grid can be seen in 2 . Large renewable energy source integration brings chal- lenges to the AC-grid operators. A comprehensive discussion is presented in 3 . One of the well-acknowledged approaches to ensure power system stability is battery energy storage systems (BESS) and their operations and control 4 . BESS sizing on AC DC side is an important decision during OWF interconnection planning. A comprehensive This research was supported by the Energy System Co-Design with Multiple Objectives and Power Electronics (E-COMP) Initiative, under the Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD) Program at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL). PNNL is a multi-program national laboratory operated for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) by Battelle Memorial Institute under Contract No. DE-AC05-76RL01830. Email: himanshu.sharma, w.wang, bowen.h, thiagarajan.ramachandran, veronica.adetola pnnl.govreview focusing on determining optimal sizing for wind farm applications can be seen in 5 . Recent work by Halwany et al. 6 developed an approach for doing storage sizing for OWF black start operations with probabilistic approach for onsite energy storage. However, the work did not con- sider the onshore BESS sizing and interconnection MTDC grid. Santanu et al. 7 also proposed a multi-objective approach for battery sizing in OWF considering economic and reliability objectives. The work developed a sequential approach of handling multiple objectives but neglected the battery controls and converter dynamics. Moghaddam et al. 8 considered the BESS sizing problem for an onshore wind farm; however, the authors developed a sequential approach where they first chose BESS size and then proposed a control strategy. To the best of the authors knowledge, none of the studies has considered simultaneously accounting for the control operations of offshore wind farms while sizing BESS. Conventionally, the design problem is solved first followed by operation control optimizations. However, many studies 9 15 have shown that such a sequential approach re- sults in sub-optimal system performance. Control co-design (CCD) is a control system design approach that takes into account the interactions between the control system and the underlying design of the physical system. A comprehensive review of CCD and handling uncertainties in the formulation presented in 16 and 17 respectively. In this paper, we aim to develop a CCD approach that is suitably used for BESS design for the OWF. Specifically, we are interested in developing CCD approach to handle the challenge of large system CCD with tight coupling amongst the sub- systems (i.e MMC s etc.). We aim to develop a generalized framework to pose a co-design optimization problem that can also handle sub-system level coupling constraints during the control and design optimization. Furthermore, many energy systems design requires the system to satisfy multiple objectives (e.g., low operation cost, minimize power loss etc.). Few studies on co-design control (CCD) considering multiple objectives have been conducted without identifying the Pareto front 18 20 . Inspired by recent research on optimizing marine energy kites 21 , we propose a CCD approach that addresses multiple objectives to find Pareto solutions for integrating offshore wind farms into the grid. Therefore, in this paper, we aim to address the aforemen- tioned research objective by developing the CCD approach using the graph-based optimization framework, which can allow scalability of optimization in the case of large systems and allow formulating a sub-system level co-design problem.arXiv:2406.10365v1 eess.SY 14 Jun 2024 Fig. 1. A schematic for the graph-based optimization formulation is shown. Each node defines a sub-system with individual objective functions. Further, we also develop a gradient-based approach to handle multiple objectives for Pareto set identification. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section-II, we discuss the proposed methodology of using graph-based optimization and the gradient based multi-objective optimiza- tion approach for Pareto set identification. In Section-III, we describe the OWF use case for doing CCD and developed optimization formulation. In Section-IV, we discuss the results from the approach and present our conclusions and future work in Section-V. II. M ETHODOLOGY We describe the details on the proposed methodology developed for doing CCD OWF interconnected with AC-grid with BESS. A. Graph-Based Optimization Graph-based modeling abstractions have recently been explored in convex optimization 22 , infrastructure networks 23 , supply chain planning problems 24
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	arXiv:2206.10775v2 eess.SY 18 Jul 2022An Overview of Drone Energy Consumption Factors and Models Pedram Beigi1Mohammad Sadra Rajabi2Sina Aghakhani3 1Department of Civil Engineering, Sharif University of Technology, T ehran, Iran 2School of Civil Engineering, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran 3Department of Industrial Engineering, Sharif University of Techn ology, Tehran, Iran Abstract At present, there is a growing demand for drones with diverse capabilities that can be used in both civilian and military applications, and this topic is receiving increasing attention. When it comes to drone operations, the amount of e nergy they consume is a determining factor in their ability to achieve their full p otential. According to this, it appears that it is necessary to identify the factors aﬀecti ng the energy consumption of the unmanned air vehicle (UAV) during the mission process , as well as examine the general factors that inﬂuence the consumption of energy. Th is chapter aims to provide an overview of the current state of research in the area of UAV energy consumption and provide general categorizations of factors aﬀecting UAV s energy consumption as well as an investigation of diﬀerent energy models. Keywords : Unmanned aerial vehicle, Energy consumption, Drone energy mod els 1 Introduction Drones oﬀer a number of advantages over trucks while they are mo re eﬃcient. They elim- inate the need of the drivers and can often travel with a higher spe ed than vehicles since they are not restricted to the road systems (Agatz et al. 2018). These advantages enable logistics companies and online retailers to deploy drones to deliver pac kages quickly. Hu- manitarian organizations are also actively considering using drones in disaster situations (Cheng et al. 2020). Also, drones have a signiﬁcant environmental advantage over trucks by reducing emissions. While UAVs have a number of desirable features, the limited battery life is a major limitation for them. As most UAVs are electric devices pow ered by onboard batteries, this constraint signiﬁcantly limits their capabilities. Many s tudies have been re- cently proposed contributing towards saving energy and increasin g endurance. A major focus of these contributions is the design of an automated system for charging and replacing batteries (Yacef et al. 2017). The smaller UAVs do not entirely solve the mechanization problem since they have one major ﬂaw, which is insuﬃcient power (Alw ateer et al. 2019). Larger drones, such as those primarily employed in military application s, have enough power 1 sources, but this advantage comes at the cost of being considera bly larger, less maneuver- able, and rather loud. The importance of having an appropriate pow er source is critical since it leads to lengthy ﬂight endurance. It would allow further ﬂight mission planning and optimal recharging for UAVs. It is therefore essential to plan and design UAV missions in an energy-eﬃcient manner. In order to achieve this, a reliable powe r consumption model is required for predicting the power consumption (Abeywickrama et a l. 2018b). 2 Factors Aﬀecting Energy Consumption of Drones The features and conﬁgurations of UAVs vary considerably depen ding on their missions. Understanding the elements of the determined energy use is critica l for designing energy con- sumption models that are accurate and eﬃcient. Drone activities ar e more energy-sensitive than conventional vehicle operations (Cheng et al. 2020). Intern al and external factors can aﬀect energy consumption. As an example, the lower power consum ption was observed when ﬂying into headwinds (Tennekes 2009), which is due to the increasing thrust generated by the translational lift as the UAV moved from hovering to forward ﬂig ht. Temperature and air density are also linked to battery drain and lift capacity of aircraf t. Below zero degrees Fahrenheit, UAVs ﬂy shorter distances and experience more malfu nctions. The weight and payloadofUAVsalsoindividually aﬀecttheirenergyconsumptionmore thanallotherfactors (Thibbotuwawa et al. 2018 a). There is an analysis of diﬀerent parameters that inﬂuence the energy consumption of the UAV Routing Problem in (Thibbotuwawa et al. 2018b). This is achieved by analyzing an example scenario of a single UAV multiple deliver y mission. Based on the analysis, the relationships between UAV energy consumption and the inﬂuencing parameters are examined. Therefore, it is vital to have better kn owledge and estimate of drone energy use. The four main elements that inﬂuence drone ene rgy usage are drone de- sign, environment, drone dynamics, and delivery operations, which will be discussed further. (Demir et al. 2014, Zhang et al. 2021). 2.1 Drone Design The weight and size of the drone s body, number and size of rotors, weight, size, and energy capacity of the battery, power transfer eﬃciency, maximum spee d and payload, lift-to-drag ratio, delivery mechanism, and avionics are all elements to consider w hile designing a drone (Zhang et al. 2021). It is inherently complex to design mechatronics systems since they involve multiple domains. During the design process, the diﬀerent eng ineering domains in- volved in the activity inﬂuence one another, which makes the task of designing a complex process for design engineers (Mohebbi et al. 2014). The mechatr onics systems are tradi- tionally designed sequentially, with the mechanical component coming ﬁrst, followed by the electronic components, then the control strategy. In order to achieve an optimized design, the coupling between the diﬀ erent components and domains must be evaluated in the early stage of the design proce ss to avoid negative consequences associatedwithdependency (Alyaqout et al.2011) . Several methodshavebeen suggested in order to achieve a better design that incorporates b oth mechanical and control aspects of the mechatronics system. The proposed methods ten d to aim an optimal aspect of 2 the system, for example, the control or the mechanisms in isolation . The literature has iden- tiﬁed some approaches for the design support of drones or mecha tronics systems in general. As an example, the design for control strategy applied to visually se rved drones is presented by Mohebbi et al. (2015). This process involves simplifying the dynam ics model of the sys- tem in order to better understanding and improving
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Final Report for CHESS : Cloud, High-Performance Computing, and Edge for Science and Security Nathan Tallent Jan Strube Luanzheng Guo Hyungro Lee Jesun Firoz Sayan Ghosh Bo Fang Oceane Bel Steven Spurgeon Sarah Akers Christina Doty Erol Cromwell Technical Report PNNL-36859 Pacific Northwest National Laboratory October 14, 2024arXiv:2410.16093v1 cs.DC 21 Oct 2024 1 Executive Summary: Automation for Autonomous Science and Continuum Platforms Impactful science increasingly requires collaborations combining instruments and datasets at multiple facilities. Consider the formation of digital twins of complex physical systems; or the automation of experi- mental facilities. A core challenge is automation of the underlying theory-experiment cycle that consists of (a) guidance and explanation from theory and (b) measurement and validation from experiments 9, 10, 22 . Figure 1.1: Advancing collaborative computational science by automating distributed scientific systems on continuum platforms.Automating the theory-experiment cycle re- quires effective distributed workflows that utilize a computing continuum spanning lab instruments, edge sensors, computing resources at multiple facil- ities, data sets distributed across multiple informa- tion sources, and potentially cloud. Unfortunately, the obvious methods for constructing continuum platforms, orchestrating workflow tasks, and cu- rating datasets over time fail to achieve scientific requirements for performance, energy, security, and reliability. Furthermore, achieving the best use of continuum resources depends upon the efficient composition and execution of workflow tasks, i.e., combinations of numerical solvers, data analytics, and machine learning. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory s LDRD Cloud, High-Performance Computing (HPC), and Edge for Science and Security (CHESS) has developed a set of interrelated capabilities for enabling dis- tributed scientific workflows and curating datasets. CHESS has Blazed a transition path for scientists to explore continuum computing with cloud using portable templates and goal-directed executions that can optimize for performance and dollar cost. Created AI-aware services for workflows and data management, including multi-modal LLM pipelines; error-bounded multi-modal dimensionality reduction; guided and goal-directed model search (perfor- mance, accuracy); microstructure-aware image segmentation; microstructure-aware data compression; high-performance training for graph neural networks; and novel federated LLM training. Designed workflow measurement, modeling, prediction, and scheduling for co-design of continuum computational science composed of data-driven models, physical simulations, and data curation. Demonstrated impact: enabling portable, goal-directed continuum computing; improving distributed workflow response time (1.28 87 speedup); creating high-performance microstructure-aware labeling ( 17 absolute accuracy; -14 reduction of false positives) and compression (10-12 speedup); creating AI-based distributed services, training for science. 1 2 Introduction Pacific Northwest National Laboratory s Cloud, High-Performance Computing (HPC), and Edge for Science and Security (CHESS) 25 is a laboratory directed research and development effort to build capabilities to support integrated computing plans across three very different computing environments: Cloud computing data is processed at a different location than the originating source. High-performance computing complex data processing calculations can be completed at a high rate. Edge computing data is processed as close to the originating source as possible. The vision is to create tooling and automation that allows researchers to seamlessly bridge these three environments to effectively create a virtual and distributed supercomputer that retains all the benefits of the individual environments, but then enhances these by allowing compute workloads to automatically and efficiently move between these environments to leverage additional computing, or other services not readily available in the current environment. Figure 2.1: PNNL is building workflows that span the spectrum of compute environments and with strategies for moving data and AI workloads between them. CHESS tests these strategies against use-cases which require moving models between such environments. The project consists of two major thrusts, Security and Science. This report focuses on the latter. 2.1 CHESS Science Thrust New materials have the potential for improving solar generation, creating new batteries, developing new health care treatments, and enabling new techniques in computing. The problem is that new materials with just the right properties are extremely hard to find. 2 Figure 2.2: CHESS s research targeted co-design distributed scientific systems for AI-enabled computational science.The key to accelerating scientific discovery is automation of the complex theory-experiment cycle that consists of (a) guidance and explanation from theory and (b) measurement and validation from experiments 9, 10, 22 . As straightforward automation methods sim- ply cannot deliver responses within required pa- rameters (time, quality, cost, resilience, etc), new computational and control methods are needed for controlling and coordinating large computational models, hypothesis generation, instrument control, experimental interpretation, feedback, data move- ment, and datasets. More broadly, collaborative science involving instruments and datasets at multiple facilities is in- creasingly important. The implication is that these collaborations require executing distributed work- flows in a computing continuum that spans lab in- struments, edge sensors, computing resources at multiple facilities, data sets distributed across multiple information sources, and potentially cloud. Unfortunately, the obvious methods for constructing a con- tinuum platform and of orchestrating workflow tasks usually fail to achieve scientific requirements for performance, energy, security, and reliability. Furthermore, achieving the best use of continuum resources and coordination depends upon efficient composition and execution of its constituent tasks, i.e., combina- tions of numerical solvers, data analytics, and machine learning. Scientific workflow Right-sized continuum platformCloudEdgeHPC Co-design Figure 2.3: CHESS s research challenge.CHESS s science thrust is developing the com- puting and coordination techniques for automat- ing theory experiment cycles. New methods are needed for representing and executing the com- putational workflows that are formed between in- struments and computational devices ranging from near-instrument devices, high performance comput- ing systems, and specialized demand-driven cloud resources. Figure 2.2 shows CHESS s goal of co- design between Data-driven methods, Models, and Continuum computing systems. CHESS s research is exploring techniques for productive and portable representations, scheduling and resource assign- ment, diagnosing and removing performance bot- tlenecks, AI ML methods for domain semantics, and customized data compression to adjust data flow. Figure 2.3 shows the challenge. The composition of data-driven methods, models, and geo-distributed datasets creates distributed scientific workflows, represented using the complex graph at the top. For example, the co-design process must determine the best composition of workflow subtasks and their placement over a continuum platform. 2.2 Results CHESS science thrust has
__label__energy	Abstract Synchr ophasor technology is an emerging and developing technology for monitoring and control of wide area measurement systems ( WAMS ). In an elementary WAMS, two identical phasors measu red at two different locations have differenc e in the phase angles measured since their reference waveforms are not synchronized with each ot her. Phasor measurement u nits ( PMUs ) measure input phasors with respect to a common reference wave based on the ato mic clock pulses received f rom global positioning s ystem ( GPS ) satellites, eliminating variation in the measured phase angles due to distant locations of the measurement nodes. This has found tremendous applications in quick fault detection, fault location analysis, accurate current, voltage, frequency and phase angle measurements in WAMS. Commercially available PMU models are often proven to be expensive for r esearch and development as well as for grid integration projects. This research article proposes an economic PMU model optimized for accurate steady - state performance based on recursive discret e Fourier transform (DFT ) and provides results and detailed ana lysis of the proposed PMU model as per the steady state compliance specifications of IEEE standard C37. 118.1. Results accurate up to 13 digits after decimal point are obtained through the developed PMU model for both nominal and off-nominal frequency input s in steady state. Keywords phasor measurement unit (PMU), recursive discrete Fourier transform (DFT), synchrophasor , time synchronised phasor measurement, wide area measurement systems (WAMS) I. INTRODUCTION HIS research article provides a detailed modelling and steady state compliance testing of a time synchronized phasor measurement unit based on recur sive discrete Fourier transform (DFT ) technique. Several approaches to model a PMU have been adopted and implemented in detail over the last two decades, such as zero-crossing detection method 1 , Kalman filtering method 2 , discrete Fourier transform (DFT) techniques 3 , quadrature demodulation techni que 4 , Z -transform and median filtering technique 5 , Newton -type approximations 6 , phase -locked -loop (PLL) techniq ue 7 and Prony s method 8 . Existing literature also proposes improvements and modifications to the synchrophasor estimation using DFT tec hniques 9 . Recursive DFT technique is mostl y preferred for implementing a low -cost PMU considering i ts simple, straight -forward algorithm and economic implementation. Existing literature in this fiel d discuss es several PMU models based on recursive DFT technique majorly focused on its analysis over dynamic conditions, such as 10, 11 . However, none o f them provides a detailed PMU model based on recursive DFT technique considering utmost accuracy in steady state condition s which is provided in this research article. PMUs, chiefly used for the time synchronized phasor measurement provide several advantages over conventional phasor measurement devices such as accurate and fast fault identification and protection in itialisation, accurate fault location determination, correct phasor measurement irrespective of location of measurement system etc. Due to these advantages, PMUs have found tremendous applications in smart grids , micro grids, distribution grid manageme nt control systems and in WAMS 12 . Existing research literature is majorly focused over performance of PMUs under dynamic conditions. However, with mod ern technological improvements in operation and control of power systems , the system parameters are more rigidly and ruggedly controlled, or in other words, the power system is becoming more robust against disturbances with advancement in control technology. Under such circumstances, it bec omes equally important to study performance of PMU under steady state conditions and develop new PMU models to achieve more accurate results for better reliability of the measurement system. Recursive DFT technique is main ly used for implementing a PMU as it is an economic and relatively le ss complex algorithm. This technique has been adopted for the proposed PMU model with certain modifications improving accuracy of the PMU phasor estimates for both nominal and off -nominal frequency inputs while also maintaining speed of PMU response. The performance of the developed model has been verifi ed against compliance requirements for steady state specifi ed in IEEE standard C37.118.1 13, 14 . II. RECURSIVE DFT TECHNIQUE FOR NOMINAL AND OFF- NOMINAL FREQUENCY INPUTS 15 The proposed PMU m odel has been developed based on recursive DFT technique with certain modifications for greater accuracy in steady state performance. Equations related with recursive DFT technique for nominal and off -nominal frequency inputs are taken from the reference 15 . The input signal is considered to be 0 ( ) cos(2 )m x t X f t (1) Where, 0f nomi nal frequency of power system ( 50 Hz) phase angle of the input signal mX maximum amplitude of the input signal If ()xt is sampled N times over each periodic cycle of angular period 2π, then sampled values of ()xt are represented as 2( ) cos( )mx n n NX (2) For simplicity, let 2 N . Therefore, ( ) cos( )m x n X n (3) Modelling Steady State Compliance Testing of an Improved Time Synchronized Phasor Measurement Unit Based on IEEE Standard C37.118.1 Nisarg Trivedi Depar tment of Electrical Engineering S. V. National Institute of Technology SVNIT Surat, India nisarg819 gmail.com T On applying Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT), we get magnitudes of various frequency components present in the signal x(n) as: 1 02 ( )N j nk nX k x n e N (4) Where k is index of frequency component. In all following calculations , k 1 is considered for fundamental frequency calculations. Simplified form of (4) is used to calculate samples of the first window with n 0 to n N -1. The calculation for consecutive window s is simply repeated through following equations. This is termed as non-recursive DFT technique. 1 1 0 1 02( ) cos( ) sin( ) 2( 1) cos( ) sin( ) N N n N N nX x n n j n N X x n n j n N (5) These equations can be expressed in phasor form as 1 1 0
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	1 Data-Driven Secondary Control of Distributed Energy Resources Madi Zholbaryssov and Alejandro D. Dom ınguez-Garc ıa,Senior Member, IEEE Abstract In this paper, we present a data-driven secondary controller for regulating to some desired values several variables of interest in a power system, namely, electrical frequency, voltage magnitudes at critical buses, and active power ﬂows through critical lines. The power generation system is based on distributed energy resources (DERs) interfaced with either grid-forming (GFM) or grid-following (GFL) inverters. The secondary controller is based on online feedback optimization leveraging the learned sensitivities of the changes in the system frequency, voltage magnitudes at critical buses, and active power ﬂows through critical lines to the changes in inverter active and reactive power setpoints. To learn the sensitivities accurately from data, the feedback optimization has a built-in mechanism for keeping the secondary control inputs persistently exciting without degrading its performance. The feedback optimization also utilizes the learned power-voltage characteristics of photovoltaic (PV) arrays to compute DC-link voltage setpoints so as to allow the PV arrays to track the power setpoints. To learn the power-voltage characteristics, we separately execute a data-driven approach that ﬁts a concave polynomial to the collected power-voltage measurements by solving a sum-of-squares (SoS) optimization. We showcase the secondary controller using the modiﬁed IEEE- 14bus test system, in which conventional energy sources are replaced with inverter-interfaced DERs. I. I NTRODUCTION With the increased installation of smart meters and other measurement devices in power distribution systems, there is a growing impetus for designing cost-effective and reliable control methods that harness the full potential of the data gathered by such measurement devices. In particular, data-driven approaches can help address the problem of integration of intermittent renewable energy sources (RESs) into power grids 1 . To achieve the ultimate goal of replacing The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA. Email: fzholbar1, aledan g ILLINOIS.EDU.arXiv:2102.01797v1 eess.SY 2 Feb 2021 2 conventional fossil fuel-based energy sources with RESs, intermittency of their power output must be considered in the control system design, e.g., by endowing RESs with fast frequency and voltage regulation capabilities. Availability of data and recent advances in the area of data- driven decision-making (see, e.g, 2 ) offer us new opportunities and tools for dealing with uncertainty associated with the power produced by RESs. Different data-driven techniques for power systems control and operation have recently been developed in the literature (see, e.g., 3 11 ). A number of works (see, e.g., 5 , 9 ) proposed data-driven controllers that solve some underlying optimization problem, using measurements to perform either system identiﬁcation or controller synthesis directly without system identiﬁcation. The authors of 3 propose a method to compute linear sensitivity distribution factors in near real- time, which was utilized in 4 to perform a real-time security-constrained economic dispatch. The authors of 5 propose a data-driven approach for frequency control of power systems with variable inertia, which is based on designing a static feedback gain from the datasets generated by the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) for different modes, where each mode depends on the amount of inertia present in the system. The authors of 6 propose a data-driven approach for regulating the active power exchange between a power distribution system and the bulk grid to which it is interconnected, which uses the learned sensitivities; loss of the persistent excitation in the DER power setpoints is prevented by adding a noise sampled from the Bernoulli distribution. The authors of 8 propose a data-driven approach for voltage regulation in radial power distribution systems based on the estimated linear branch ﬂow model; however, the approach requires the system to be fully observable, i.e., each bus must be equipped with a meter that provides voltage and power injection measurements. The authors of 9 propose a data-driven H2optimization to design a non-droop-based controller for achieving the standard primary and secondary control objectives, which directly uses measurements for controller synthesis, thereby bypassing the need for system identiﬁcation. Another body of works (see, e.g., 10 , 11 ) utilized emerging machine learning techniques, e.g., deep learning, deep reinforcement learning, to make control decisions based on deep neural networks that replace uncertain power system models; however, training deep neural networks requires large volumes of data. In this paper, we propose a data-driven secondary controller for an inverter-based power system, the objective of which is to regulate to some desired values several variables of interest, namely, the electrical frequency across the system, voltage magnitudes at critical buses, and active power ﬂows through critical lines. The design of the secondary controller is based on online 3 feedback optimization that makes use of learned sensitivities of changes in the variables to be regulated to changes in the control inputs, comprising the active and reactive power setpoints of the inverters. These sensitivities are estimated recursively using real-time measurements. One of the main challenges in designing such controller lies in maintaining persistent excitation of the control inputs and preventing the loss of identiﬁability of the sensitivities due to feedback control. A common strategy to maintain the excitation is to add a random signal 12 . In this work, we argue that there is a better approach that relies on a certain mechanism built into the feedback optimization that adds a noise less detrimental to the control objectives only when necessary, and exploits the natural excitation of the output error due to, e.g., load ﬂuctuations. An additional feature of the secondary controller is to enable PV arrays to provide regulation services. One of the challenges here is to compute the power setpoints that are trackable by the PV arrays given the ﬂuctuations in their power-voltage characteristics due to the changes in solar irradiance. In this work, we attempt to integrate the learned power-voltage characteristics of the PV arrays into the proposed feedback optimization, and compute the DC-link voltage setpoints in addition to the power setpoints. In other words, the feedback optimization combines the standard secondary control objectives
__label__energy	Combining physics-based and machine learning methods to accelerate innovation in sustainable transportation and beyond: a control perspective Gabriele Pozzato1and Simona Onori1; ;IEEE SeniorMember Abstract Lithium-ion batteries are playing a key role in the sustainable energy transition. To fully exploit the potential of this technology, a variety of modeling, estimation, and predic- tion problems need to be addressed to enhance its design and optimize its utilization. Batteries are complex electrochemical systems whose behavior drastically changes as a function of aging, temperature, C-rate, and state of charge, posing unique modeling and control research questions. In this tutorial paper, we provide insights into three bat- tery modeling methodologies, namely ﬁrst principle, machine learning, and hybrid modeling. Each approach has its own strengths and weaknesses, and by means of three case studies we describe main characteristics and challenges of each of the three methods. I. I NTRODUCTION AND MOTIVATION According to a recent McKinsey Company 1 report, the lithium-ion battery chain, from mining through recycling, is projected to have an annual growth of over 30 from 2022 to 2030 and reach a market size of 4.7TWh. To support the transition to electriﬁed transportation systems and decarbonization, high speciﬁc power and energy storage devices are needed. Compared to other electrochemical so- lutions available on the market, lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) with power and energy density of 300-1500W kg and 100- 250Wh kg 2 , respectively play a dominant role. A LIB is composed of positive and negative electrodes, a separator, an electrolyte, and current collectors. In a cell, lithium ions are shufﬂed between the electrodes through the separator, a permeable membrane placed between the electrodes, while electrons ﬂow through an external circuit. Electrochemical models are well-established approaches to describe lithium transport in the liquid phase, and inter- calation in the negative and positive electrodes (the solid phase). Electrochemical models based on the conservation of mass and charge partial differential equations (PDEs) are in the form of single-particle (SPM) 3 , 4 , enhanced sin- gle particle (ESPM) 5 , and Doyle-Fuller-Newman (DFN) 6 models. These models are effective tools to describe the underlying electrochemical phenomena under different operating conditions and can be extended to account for aging modes. The key limitation of electrochemical models is overparametrization and parameters identiﬁability 7 , which could hinder their use in particular when cell s properties are changing over time. 1Energy Science Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA. corresponding author sonori stanford.eduIn the last years, machine learning models have gained attention as promising tools for battery state of health (SOH) estimation and residual useful life (RUL) prediction 8 . Provided that a comprehensive dataset is available, this modeling approach is appealing because does not require a deep understanding of electrochemical kinetics and trans- port phenomena and is characterized by a relatively short development time. The model complexity is not ﬁxed and can be chosen through optimization routines such as grid search. Moreover, these models do not require the solution of PDEs and, if trained properly, can achieve high accuracy with low computational cost. Machine learning models are black box models, i.e., they use historical data to learn the input-output behavior of the system and do not provide any insight into the underlying physics. A key limitation of machine learning approaches is their limited or nonexistent extrapolation capability 9 . The most common solution to this problem is to increase the cardinality of the training dataset in order to cover the whole operating region of the battery (e.g., in terms of current, voltage, state of charge (SOC), and temperature) 10 . However, this is not always a viable option, as it could lead to long and costly experimental campaigns 11 . Another solution is to carefully engineer experiments to collect data carrying information on the phenomena of interest. To blend the insight of physics-based models with the learning capability of machine learning tools, hybrid models have recently been proposed to innovate the ﬁeld of battery modeling and life prediction. Generally speaking, hybrid modeling frameworks have the potential to increase the predictive and extrapolation capabilities of battery models. However, a range of different conﬁgurations combining the strengths of the two methods can be used based upon the speciﬁc application 12 . Batteries are complex electrochemical systems affected by different aging modes and their behavior drastically changes as a function of temperature, C-rate, SOC, and time. We believe that problems related to electrochemical modeling, estimation, or prediction do not have a single all-encompassing solution. Following this rationale, there is no clear winner between physics-based, machine learning, and hybrid modeling; instead, these approaches complements each other and should be carefully exploited depending on the problem to be solved. In this tutorial, we dig further into each approach and show three case studies exemplifying the application of eacharXiv:2305.04840v1 eess.SY 4 May 2023 strategy. In Section II-A, an electrochemical model for NMC batteries integrating different degradation modes is shown. In Section III-A, ofﬂine and online battery health estimation strategies for second-life applications are considered. Lastly, in Section IV-A, a hybrid solution blending physics with machine learning for the problem of LFP batteries modeling is described. II. P HYSICS -BASED MODELING Pros: Physical insight Good accuracy over wide operating regions Can include degradation mechanisms Extrapolation capability Transferability across chemistries Cons: High computational cost Overparametrization and parameter identiﬁability Limited understanding of some degradation modes Electrochemical models are used to predict lithium trans- port in the electrolyte phase and intercalation deintercalation in the solid phase. The solid phase is composed of particles with different shapes and sizes packed together to form a porous structure which is saturated with electrolyte (the liquid phase). Particles in the electrodes are usually modeled as spheres and, depending on the number of particles, models can be divided in two groups: the ones considering an ensemble of particles (e.g., DFN 6 , 13 ), and the ones lumping the electrode in one single particle (e.g., SPM and ESPM 3 , 4 , 5 ). Depending on the selected modeling strategy, different levels of accuracy in the
__label__energy	chenwang vt.edu Voltage Security Analysis of VSC-HVDC Transmission Lines Chen WANG1, 2, Chetan MISHRA2 1 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University 2 Dominion Energy USA SUMMARY Due to generation retirements and growth of renewable energy sources integration, there will be widespread changes in the real and reactive power flow in nowadays power systems. These changes also bring about challenges on system operation and stability. High voltage direct current (HVDC) technology seems to be a promising solution to these new challenges. A study on the impact of the replacement of 500KV AC transmission lines by VSC-HVDC transmission line on system voltage security is conducted. The analysis is based on reactive load margin method and implemented on one of the Dominion Energy planning models. Different control schemes of HVDC are considered. Using k-means clustering method, three representative zones within the network are selected. The results corresponding to them are demonstrated and discussed. It is shown that HVDC lines with P-V control remarkably improve system voltage security, while those with P-PF control scheme have negative effects. KEYWORDS HVDC, Voltage Source Converter, Voltage Security Analysis, Reactive Load Margin, k-means clustering 1 1. INTRODUCTION Nowadays, power systems work closer to their operating limits and stability boundaries due to efficiency and economic reasons. At the same time, more and more renewable energy sources have been integrated into both the transmission and distribution systems 1 . All these factors increase the danger of system voltage collapse and triggering large blackouts 2 3 . Therefore, system voltage stability has become one of the major concerns for power system planning and operation. Voltage source converter (VSC) based HVDC, given its flexibility of power flow and voltage controls, can be a suitable solution 4 . With it implemented in the system, there can be an improvement in system s capability to keep bus voltages within acceptable limits during normal operation as well as when subjected to faults. Considerable research efforts have been devoted to VSC-HVDC control schemes and their impacts on system voltage security. In 4 , an appropriate control scheme of VSC-HVDC is proposed. The positive impact of its application on long-term system voltage stability is assessed and validated. Researchers in 5 guarantees sufficient stability margin of the HVDC integrated system by using sensitivity between VSC control input and system voltage stability margin to guide the control algorithm. In 6 , a comparison is conducted between a new ac transmission line and a new VSC-HVDC line. The results show that the voltage support capability of VSC-HVDC can help the system from losing synchronism caused by voltage collapse. Using P-V curve, Study in 7 demonstrates that loss of stability margin can be minimized by proper control of VSCs when currents reach their limits. In this paper, we are also considering use reactive load margin as the metric to system voltage security, which is widely utilized nowadays. In order to demonstrate VSC-HVDC lines impact on the overall system, the network in Dominion Energy territory is used as the study case. This system is partitioned into several zones. The average of buses reactive load margins in each zone is evaluated. The results of cases with different VSC-HVDC lines are clustered using k-means algorithm. Three representative cases are selected from these clusters and analyzed. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section II describes the voltage stability analysis and k-means method. In section III, study cases are described. Simulation and computation results are presented in section IV. Finally, section V concludes the paper. 2. METHODOLOGY A. Reactive Load Margin Magnitude of voltages is intuitively used to illustrate system voltage security 8 . However, it does not necessarily give the correct picture of voltage health in a network. In an overly compensated system, even a 0.9 p.u. voltage on a bus could mean a danger of collapse. This can be seen from the scatterplot below between the max Q that can be extracted at each bus (negative for extraction) and the voltage at the point of collapse for all the buses in Dominion in a summer peak planning model. Here it can be seen that some buses collapse at even 1 p.u. Figure 1. Typical Q-V Scatterplot in Dominion Peak Summer 2 Voltage security refers to how far the operating condition is from the point of collapse or loss of equilibrium for a given change in load 9 . The buses in a power system are connected by transmission lines with each line s impedance 10 limiting the maximum allowable power flow over it. A system has multiple voltage control devices like generator AVRs, SVCs, etc which dynamically change their reactive power injection to the system in order to maintain voltage at a pre-defined bus through control action. The electrical distance (depends on impedance) of a bus from such reactive power resource determines its accessibility to that resource. An increasing reactive load on a particular bus will be met by some and not necessarily all such resources in the system. The collection of such resources that participate to match the increasing reactive power demand at a particular bus forms the reactive reserve basin (RRB) for that bus. The size of the RRB reduces as kV level increases or electrical distance to those resources increases. Each such resource has a limit on how much reactive power it can provide. Thus, on occasions when somehow the reactive reserve on the RRB for some region is exhausted, the voltage becomes highly insecure. Q-V analysis can be done at each bus in the network to understand how well controlled the voltage is at each bus and up to what extent 11 . The analysis involves adding a fictitious generator on the study bus and then reducing its voltage set point which the generator achieves by absorbing reactive power from the network. The Q value at which the voltage collapses gives a sense of the security margin at that bus. Also, the number of reactive resources that where loss of voltage control happens leading up to the
__label__energy	Dynamic Incentive Strategies for Smart EV Charging Stations: An LLM-Driven User Digital Twin Approach Yichen Sun Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China yichensun mail.shiep.edu.cnChenggang Cui Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China cgcui shiep.edu.cnChuanlin Zhang Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China clzhang shiep.edu.cn Chunyang Gong Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China gongchunyang shiep.edu.cn Abstract This paper presents an enhanced electric vehicle de- mand response system based on large language models, aimed at optimizing the application of vehicle-to-grid technology. By lever- aging an large language models-driven multi-agent framework to construct user digital twins integrated with multidimensional user profile features, it enables deep simulation and precise prediction of users charging and discharging decision-making patterns. Additionally, a data- and knowledge-driven dynamic incentive mechanism is proposed, combining a distributed optimization model under network constraints to optimize the grid-user interaction while ensuring both economic viability and security. Simulation results demonstrate that the approach significantly improves load peak-valley regulation and charging discharging strategies. Experimental validation highlights the system s sub- stantial advantages in load balancing, user satisfaction and grid stability, providing decision-makers with a scalable V2G manage- ment tool that promotes the sustainable, synergistic development of vehicle-grid integration. Index Terms Electric Vehicles, Demand Response, User Pro- file , Vehicle-to-Grid, Large Language Models I. I NTRODUCTION Electric vehicles (EVs) serve as essential elements in de- mand response (DR) systems, acting as flexible distributed energy resources that facilitate clean energy transition and emission reduction 1 . The integration of EVs with the energy sector via vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology is emphasized by 2 for its potential to enhance wind energy utilization and decrease CO2 emissions. With the rapid proliferation of Electric Vehicles (EVs), grid stability and energy distribution confront unprecedented challenges, which has propelled the development of advanced charging infrastructures and intelligent management strategies. Researchers have proposed decentralized coordination mecha- nisms utilizing smart algorithms and game theory to optimize Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) applications. In 3 , a method for providing V2G regulation services through distributed coordi- nation of electric vehicles is explored, indicating that intelli- gently scheduling charging times can balance load fluctuations,improve voltage profiles, and reduce network losses without necessitating additional investments. Reference 4 further advances this by proposing optimal schemes for electric ve- hicle charging and discharging schedules using metaheuristic algorithms, emphasizing the significance of V2G approaches in reducing costs and supporting the grid. Concurrently, 5 investigates decentralized vehicle-grid control strategies for primary frequency regulation considering charging demands, demonstrating how these strategies enhance the grid s adapt- ability to renewable energy fluctuations. EV users are pivotal in the successful deployment of V2G technology. Research focused on optimizing V2G integration through demand response employs real-time pricing and con- siders user preferences, using incentives or price signals to encourage participation 6 , 7 . This aims to balance grid loads, reduce peak demand, and improve societal welfare and grid efficiency. However, these studies often overlook individual behavioral diversity. Recent research highlights that psychological and economic factors, such as financial status, risk preference, and price elasticity, significantly influence user participation decisions 8 , 9 . By applying psychology and behavioral economics frameworks, In 10 ,researchers have revealed differences among user groups in demand response scenarios, though this approach adds complexity and may limit broader applicability due to the nuanced differences among users . In this paper, an enhanced Electric vehicles demand re- sponse system has been proposed, aiming to promote orderly charging and the application of V2G technology. This system employs a multi-agent framework driven by a large language model (LLM), which comprehensively considers users basic information, psychological, and economic factors to generate precise user profiles. By integrating real-time data from the environment and electric vehicle charging station (EVCS), the system dynamically adjusts strategies and conducts an in-depth analysis of EV user behavior to predict users willingness toarXiv:2504.01423v1 eess.SY 2 Apr 2025 participate in DR. The system, through the analysis of user behavior and psychological drivers, achieves a profound understanding of personalized needs, thereby overcoming the limitations of traditional DR methods that neglect user heterogeneity. By employing dynamically adjusted economic incentives, psycho- logical barriers to user participation in V2G programs are effectively addressed, balancing user engagement with load fluctuation control while significantly reducing the high costs associated with V2G pilot projects. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: 1) User Behavior Simulation: A multi-agent system driven by LLMs is proposed to analyze EV user behavior. The system features a User Profile Generation Agent, consisting of an Information Analysis Agent and a User Psychological Analysis Agent. The former con- structs a basic profile from personal data, while the latter applies psychological and economic theories to infer preferences and behavioral patterns, producing a comprehensive profile. A Decision-Making Agent then integrates these profiles with real-time data on EVCS status, environmental conditions, and incentive policies to derive optimal strategies. This collaborative frame- work enables refined behavioral modeling and precise decision-making analysis. 2) Dynamic Incentive Mechanism: A DR system enhanced by LLMs is proposed, which not only considers users basic information but also deeply analyzes psycholog- ical traits and economic conditions to generate precise behavioral decisions and simulate user behavior in depth. Through the dynamic adjustment of economic incentive mechanisms, the system effectively promotes the orderly charging of EVs and participation in V2G services, optimizing the grid load distribution while avoiding the emergence of new peak loads caused by excessive incentives. II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION AND PROBLEM STATEMENT A. Electric Vehicle Charging Station Model The study introduces an innovative model for an EVCS that incorporates both charging and discharging services. The EVCS features multiple charging points, and EVs actively communicate their current battery state ( SOCc n), target battery state ( SOCt n), and their distance from the station prior to arrival. This information allows the EVCS to predict charging demand and estimate the required charging time ( τc n) accord- ingly. The charging energy demand for each vehicle, Ec n, is calculated based on the difference between the target and current battery states, as well as the vehicle s battery capacity,
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Generating Connected, Simple, and Realistic Cyber Graphs for Smart Grids Osman Boyaci Electrical Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, 77843 osman.boyaci tamu.eduM. Rasoul Narimani College of Engineering Arkansas State University Jonesboro, AR, 72404 mnarimani astate.eduKatherine Davis Electrical Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, 77843 katedavis tamu.eduErchin Serpedin Electrical Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, 77843 eserpedin tamu.edu Abstract Smart grids integrate communication systems with power networks to enable power grids operation and command through real-time data collection and control signals. Designing, analyzing, and simulating smart grid infrastructures as well as predicting the impact of power network failures strongly depend on the topologies of the underlying power network and communication system. Despite the substantial impact that the communication systems bring to smart grid operation, the topology of communication systems employed in smart grids was less studied. The power community lacks realistic generative communication system models that can be calibrated to match real-world data. To address this issue, this paper proposes a framework to generate the underlying topological graphs for the communication systems deployed in smart grids by mim- icking the topology of real-world smart grids. In this regard, we have updated the Chung-Lu algorithm to guarantee the communication network connectivity and to match the degree distribution of a real-world smart grid rather than following an expected degree distribution. In addition, key characteristics of communication systems such as diameter, average shortest paths, clustering coefﬁcients, assortativity, and spectral gap were taken into consideration to generate the most similar real-world communication network for smart grid studies. We believe that the proposed algorithm to generate realistic cyber graphs for smart grid studies will beneﬁt the power community. NOMENCLATURE G;V;E Graph, set of nodes, set of edges n; mPZ V ; E u:dPR Degree of a node u SPZnDegree sequence dPZ Max. degree xp q Normalization operation s.t. n 1xp q 1 DPZdDegree vector D r1;:::;ds pKPRdNormalized frequency vector G:gPt0;1uGis graphical (no self loops and parallel edges) G:cPt0;1uGis connected PR Density asm n IPR Diameter as the longest shortest path rspPR Average shortest path ccPR Clustering coefﬁcient aPR Assortativity as the Pearson correlation coefﬁ- cient of degrees between pairs of linked nodes PR Spectral gap as the minimum non-zero eigen- value of the normalized Laplacian This work was supported by NSF under Award Number 1808064.I. I NTRODUCTION Communication systems play a major role in the deploy- ment of smart grids empowering them to be more resistant, secure, reliable and manageable and ensuring connectivity of the grid components. The backbone of communication systems in smart grids is represented by the information and communication technologies that allow two-way communica- tion and automated control. Communication systems improve the efﬁciency and reliability of smart grids by gathering and transmitting a wide variety of data for grid control and decision-making purposes. The integration of cyber commu- nications and control systems into the power distribution infrastructure has a profound impact on the operation, re- liability, and efﬁciency of the power grid. The power and communication systems in modern power grids are highly intertwined. Analyzing, simulating, designing, and predicting the impact of network failures strongly rely on the knowledge of a communication network topology 1 . Thus, studying the underlying communication network topology is essential for the smart grid operation and control 2 . In spite of the many models proposed for electrical power systems 3 , the problem of modeling the underlying com- munication network in smart grids was less studied. In fact, despite the huge efforts deployed for studying smart grids operation and control, modeling smart grids is still at its infancy. There is not enough realistic and practical infor- mation about the topology of the underlying communication network in smart grids. So far, various efforts have focused on developing cyber-physical test models for general use by the power system community 4 7 . These studies consider different characteristics of communication systems including vulnerabilities of communication devices, attack paths, etc., to design a practical cyber layer for cyber-physical power systems. However, taking all these characteristics into con- sideration makes these approaches computationally intractable for larger cyber graphs as the number of attack paths increases exponentially with the number of nodes. To analyze the impact of cyber-graphs on power networks operation, e.g., cascading failure analysis, we ﬁrst need a fast and reliable framework to generate realistic cyber graphs for power test cases irrespective of their size. A few efforts were conducted for generating realistic cyber graphs for power test cases. A graph generator based on the characteristics of Luxembourg smart grid, which is a power-line communication (PLC) system 8 , was presented in 1 to create randomarXiv:2201.04252v1 cs.SI 12 Jan 2022 but realistic smart grid communication topologies. Different characteristics of power grid including nodal degree distribu- tion, graph spectrum and connectivity scaling property, etc., were analyzed in 9 for designing efﬁcient communication schemes for power test cases. Heuristic algorithms were em- ployed in 10 to improve the communication reliability for smart grids at the transmission level. However, many generic graph generation algorithms such as conﬁguration model 11 , Havel-Hakimi algorithm 12 , and Chung-Lu algorithm do not guarantee the graphical and connected graphs properties, and thus are not ﬁt for designing communication systems for smart grids. Horv at-Modes model, on the contrary, yields both connected and graphical outputs. Due to its edge connec- tion mechanism it produces graphs with large diameter and low assortativity, which are not realistic for communication systems. Thus, it is important to propose generative graph algorithms that take into account the real-world characteristics of communication systems in the design process. Power system statistics were leveraged to design optimal communication systems for smart grids in 9 . Similarly, the communication system statistics can be leveraged for designing a realistic communication system for smart grids which is the centerpiece of this paper. Along this parallel, we ﬁrst derive the statistical metrics of a real-world smart grid s communication system and then propose a graph gen- erator based on the statistical information of the smart
__label__energy	DOMAIN CONSISTENT INDUSTRIAL DECARBONISATION OF GLOBAL COAL POWER PLANTS Waqar Muhammad Ashraf University College London London, UK University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK and The Alan Turing Institute London, UK waqar.ashraf.21 ucl.ac.uk Vivek Dua University College London London, UK v.dua ucl.ac.ukRamit Debnath University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK rd545 cam.ac.uk ABSTRACT Machine learning and optimisation techniques (MLOPT) hold significant potential to accelerate the decarbonisation of industrial systems by enabling data-driven operational improvements. However, the practical application of MLOPT in industrial settings is often hindered by a lack of domain compliance and system-specific consistency, resulting in suboptimal solutions with limited real-world applicability. To address this challenge, we propose a novel human-in-the-loop (HITL) constraint- based optimisation framework that integrates domain expertise with data-driven methods, ensuring solutions are both technically sound and operationally feasible. We demonstrate the efficacy of this framework through a case study focused on enhancing the thermal efficiency and reducing the turbine heat rate of a 660 MW supercritical coal-fired power plant. By embedding domain knowledge as constraints within the optimisation process, our approach yields solutions that align with the plant s operational patterns and are seamlessly integrated into its control systems. Empirical validation confirms a mean improvement in thermal efficiency of 0.64 and a mean reduction in turbine heat rate of 93 kJ kWh. Scaling our analysis to 59 global coal power plants with comparable capacity and fuel type, we estimate a cumulative lifetime reduction of 156.4 million tons of carbon emissions. These results underscore the transformative potential of our HITL-MLOPT framework in delivering domain-compliant, implementable solutions for industrial decarbonisation, offering a scalable pathway to mitigate the environmental impact of coal-based power generation worldwide. Keywords AI human-in-the-loop design climate action coal power plants industrial decarbonisation 1 Introduction Fossil fuel-based thermal plants operating on coal, oil, and gas are the major drivers of greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector 1 2 . In 2022, fossil fuels generated 81 of the total energy supply, while coal, oil, and gas contributed 45 , 33 and 22 of global emissions from fuel combustion, respectively 3 . Despite governments pledges to phase out or reduce the reliance on fossil fuels for power generation 4 5 and the unreliable energy supply from intermittent renewable power sources 6 , achieving net zero emissions requires addressing techno-economic, socio-political, and behavioural challenges around the world 7 8 . Although technology upgrade, co-combustion, carbon capture and storage, and early retirement are potential solutions for low-carbon power generation from coalarXiv:2503.03571v1 cs.LG 5 Mar 2025 Ashraf et. al. power plants; however, these solutions are expensive and can exert an additional financial burden on low-income and developing countries where fossil-based power plants are being installed to meet the energy demand of increasing populations 9 10 . The early retirement of coal-based energy assets is socially unjust 11 as most coal-based power plants in Europe and the US are nearing the end of their useful life and have an average life of 35 years and 40 years, respectively 12 . On the other hand, the average life of coal-based power plants in China is 13 years, and 16 years in the rest of Asian countries, which house a large proportion of coal-based power plants 12 . In the spectrum of geopolitical, economic and social challenges in phasing out or low-carbon power generation from coal plants, the International Energy Agency (IEA) proposes an immediate and implementable solution to support industrial decarbonisation by cutting emissions volumes through operational excellence and informed operating strategies built on efficient and reliable analytics for the operation of power generation of fossil energy assets 13 14 . As a policy instrument, the IEA recommendation to improve the operational efficiency of coal power plants appears to be an implementable solution to improve energy efficiency in line with the reduction of CO 2emissions for industrial decarbonisation 15 and appears to be a sustainable approach considering the progress in hardware computing and data-driven analysis techniques. However, to demonstrate the complexity bound with the operational excellence of multicapacity and multitechnology coal power plants at the global scale, we have compiled a dataset taken from 16 17 , which contains observations on the design specifications of nearly 8870 global coal power plants. The dataset reveals that 80.2 of the global coal power plants operate on subcritical technology (SUBCR) with a median power generation capacity of 110 megaWatt (MW), as shown in Fig. 1(a). In addition, the global median energy efficiency is found to be 29.8 , 36.9 , and 40.1 for SUBCR, supercritical (SUPERC) and ultrasupercritical (ULTRSC) coal power plants. SUBCR coal power plants dominate the global coal-based energy assets; their median energy efficiency is significantly lower than those of SUPERC and ULTRSC. The improvement in operational efficiency of coal power plants is strongly dependent on the real-time estimation of optimal values of the operating variables that affect thermal efficiency. The main steam pressure and the main steam flow rate are two critically controlled operating variables during the power generation operation of coal power plants 18 . The power generation from the power plant (Power MW) is increased or decreased within the generation capacity limits, and the turbine heat rate is calculated to monitor the thermal energy spent on producing an electrical unit. Using the compiled data set of global coal power plants, the contour plots are made with the main steam pressure (measured in MPa) and the main steam flow rate (measured in t h) against power (in MW) and the turbine heat rate (kJ kWh), as shown in Fig. 1(b) and Fig. 1(c) respectively. The plots depict the nonconvex and highly nonlinear function spaces for Power and turbine heat rate which are not only difficult to optimise from an engineering perspective but also require advanced analytics for handling the complexity bound with the operational excellence of coal power plants. With recent advances in information communication technologies (ICTs) for data collection and storage, large-scale industrial systems are equipped with large volumes of data banks that can help improve the operational efficiency and performance of industrial
__label__energy	Adiabatic approach for natural gas pipeline computations Michael Chertkov Theory Division, T-4 CNLS of Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87544, USA; Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, Moscow, RussiaAlexander Korotkevich Department of Math Statistics of University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131, USA; L.D. Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics, Moscow, Russia Abstract We consider slowly evolving, i.e. ADIABATIC, operational regime within a transmission level (continental scale) natural gas pipeline system. This allows us to introduce a set of nodal equations of reduced complexity describing gas transients in injection consumption UNBALANCED (so- called line-pack) cases. We discuss, in details, construction of the UNBALANCED ADIABATIC (UA) approximation on the basic example of a single pipe. The UA approximation is expected to play a signiﬁcant model reduction role in solving control, optimization and planning problems relevant for ﬂawless functioning of modern natural gas networks. I. I NTRODUCTION Natural gas transmission pipes extend over continents. It is important to plan, build and operate ﬂow of gas through the system, which is injected at the gas terminals or reservoirs, compressed at the compressor stations and withdrawn consumed by industrial and private customers. Coordinating seamless work of all the components of the system poses a signiﬁcant challenge. Modeling and simu- lations of the gas ﬂow through the system is critical for all problems in the system design, optimization and con- trol. In the normal operational regime considered in this manuscript (no fast abrupt changes of an emergency type) starting point for modeling gas ﬂow is a system of spatio- temporal and nonlinear PDEs, two per-pipe describing mass and momentum transfer, supplemented by boundary condi- tions at the junctions and compressors, and thermodynamic relations describing pressure and ﬂow transformations at various nodal elements of the systems 1 5 . For majority of operational problems (as well as many planning problems) this large system of equations need to be solved in the most general dynamic case 6 10 , where consumption and production of gas are not balanced. This unbalanced regime is characterized by the so-called line-pack, thus emphasizing that gas can accumulate or be withdrawn in different parts of the systems globally unbalanced thus leading to signiﬁcant pressure transients. Solving the system of nonlinear Partial Differential Equa- tions (PDEs) in direct simulations is prohibitively expensive. To overcome the challenge, researchers have focused on looking for approximate but efﬁcient computational tech- niques, see e.g. 2 , 3 , 11 15 . In particular, of a great interest are the so-called lump-element computational methods 10 , 16 21 which allow to replace the PDE model by an Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) model,where the ODEs are describing nonlinear dynamics of relevant parameters (pressure, mass ﬂow, and temperature) only at a limited number of spatial positions along the system. Moreover, an ultimate goal in this PDE-to-ODE reduction consists in keeping in the description only critical nodes, such as end-nodes of the pipes, compressor locations, branching points and injection consumption locations 10 , 16 18 . Two ﬂavors of the the lump-element methods were reported in the literature. First, it was suggested to approximate spatial derivatives through a properly cho- sen discrete approximation, e.g. resembling ﬁnite-element schemes of different types 16 , 18 21 . This approach would normally be validated empirically through comparison with high resolution methods (which are less efﬁcient, but more accurate). On the contrary, this manuscript focuses on developing lump-element models of the second, so-called adiabatic, type 10 , 17 . The adiabatic models are exact in the asymptotic regimes where characteristic time scale of the input parameters (e.g. injection consumption) becomes inﬁnite. (Some other restrictions on an adiabatic method validity may apply as well see below.) When the input time scale is large but ﬁnite, the adiabatic methods provide leading results with corrections, which can be computed (at least in principle) systematically. (For the method to work well the corrections should be sufﬁciently small with respect to the small adiabatic parameter stated as the ratio of the largest natural time scale of the system to the exogenous time scale of the slowly changing input.) First adiabatic approximation was suggested in 10 , where it was noticed that allowing parameters of a stationary ﬂow solution to evolve slowly allows to represent at least some part of the actual solu- tion temporal dynamics. The approximation was improved in 17 where it was shown how to make the adiabatic description self-consistent. Systematic (as exact in the limit when input output characteristics freeze) and self-consistent approximation was derived for a gas network in 17 . It was shown in 17 how the approximation results in the reduced description relating dynamics of pressures and mass ﬂows to the exogenously ﬁxed injections consumption or pressures at the critical nodes only. However, one signiﬁcant handicap of the adiabatic approximation of 17 consisted in the fact that the approximation also required, in addition to the slowness of the inputs, that the transients remain sufﬁciently close to possibly different but still balanced solutions. SmallnessarXiv:1706.00523v2 cs.SY 2 Aug 2017 of the deviations explored in 17 was critically linked to existence of a class of stationary, i.e. time independent and thus balanced, solutions of the gas ﬂow equations which are analytically tractable. However, when deviations from the balance situation persists for sufﬁciently long time the Balanced Adiabatic (BA) approximation of 17 does not apply. In this manuscript we address this caveat of the BA approximation and show how to generalize it and thus construct Unbalanced Adiabatic (UA) solution which is not limited to the balanced case. Our approach consists of the following two steps: Construction of a novel family of exact unbalanced, and thus non-stationary, solutions of the basic gas- ﬂow PDEs. The non-stationary solutions grow or decay exponentially in time, where thus the time-independent (stationary) and balanced case being a marginal exam- ple. Development of the adiabatic generalization of the exact unbalanced solutions allowing for slow evolution of the unbalanced solution parameters. This new UA construction generalizes the BA construction described in 17 , thus
__label__energy	Data-Driven Evolutionary Game-Based Model Predictive Control for Hybrid Renewable Energy Dispatch in Autonomous Ships 1stYaoze Liu School of Engineering, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, United Kingdom2ndZhen Tian James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom 3rdJinming Yang School of Computing Science, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom4thZhihao Lin James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom Corresponding author: 2800400l student.gla.ac.uk Abstract In this paper, we propose a data-driven Evolutionary Game-Based Model Predictive Control (EG-MPC) framework for the energy dispatch of a hybrid renewable energy system powering an autonomous ship. The system integrates solar photovoltaic and wind turbine generation with battery energy storage and diesel backup power to ensure reliable operation. Given the uncertainties in renewable generation and dynamic energy demands, an optimal dispatch strat- egy is crucial to minimize operational costs while maintaining system reliability. To address these chal- lenges, we formulate a cost minimization problem that considers both battery degradation costs and diesel fuel expenses, leveraging real-world data to enhance modeling accuracy. The EG-MPC approach integrates evolutionary game dynamics within a receding-horizon optimization framework, enabling adaptive and near-optimal control solutions in real time. Simulation results based on site-specific data demonstrate that the proposed method achieves cost- effective, reliable, and adaptive energy dispatch, outperforming conventional rule-based and standard MPC approaches, particularly under uncertainty. Keywords Energy system, autonomous ship, evolutionary game, model predictive control, real-world data I. I NTRODUCTION Recently, autonomous mobilizing technology has gar- nered significant public attention in variaous domains 1 4 . Among these technologies, the rapid expansion of renewable energy sources and the need for reliable and sustainable power have spurred research into autonomous ships hybrid energy systems 5 7 . The hybrid energy system has significant influence for remote or offshore applications, such as the autonomous ship illustrated in Fig. 1 8 . Offshore aquaculture Equal contribution Fig. 1. Illustration of autonomous ship. farms, which rely on floating structures, require a continuous and cost-effective power supply for various operational needs, including aeration, lighting, monitoring equipment, dead fish handling system, and feeding systems 9 , 10 . Given their offshore location, these facilities have limited access to grid electricity and often rely on diesel generators, which introduce high fuel costs and carbon emissions 11 . Managing energy efficiently is crucial to minimize operational costs and environ- mental impacts 12 , 13 . Hybrid renewable energy systems that combine solar and wind power with battery storage and diesel backup generation offer a promising solution 14 , 15 . However, ensuring reliable energy supply under varying weather conditions and load demands requires sophisticated energy management strategies 12 . Conventional rule-based optimization approaches prioritize one energy source at a time (e.g., using renewable energy first, followed by batteries, and then diesel), leading to suboptimal results 16 . More advanced methods such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) have been widely used for energy dispatch due to their ability to op- timize multi-variable control problems with constraints 17 .arXiv:2504.14750v1 eess.SY 20 Apr 2025 Real-world Data Linear Renewable Energy Model Model Predictive ControlMutation Imitation Evolutionary Game Autonomous Ship Current StateOptimal Control Commands Next StateOptimal Control Commands Model Predictive Control Evolutionary GameMutation ImitationOnline Model Fitting Offline Real-time ControlFig. 2. The proposed framework using EG-MPC based on real-world data. However, MPC can be computationally demanding and may struggle with uncertainty and nonlinearity in renewable gen- eration 18 . Metaheuristic methods, such as evolutionary algorithms and swarm intelligence, have been explored to enhance the performance of MPC-based energy dispatch frameworks 19 21 . Traditional techniques like Ant Colony (AC) Optimiza- tion improves search efficiency but may require extensive computational resources for convergence 22 . Evolutionary Game Theory (EGT), on the other hand, provides a dynamic approach using historical experience to control optimization by leveraging game-theoretic adaptation mechanisms 23 . It enables a self-adaptive search process that efficiently identifies optimal or near-optimal control actions in real-time. Given the energy cost on autonomous ships both require the robustness of MPC and the proper optimization based on historical control sequences. Therefore, the integration of evolutionary game dynamics with MPC (EG MPC) offers a robust and computationally efficient strategy for the dispatch of a hybrid energy system dispatch under uncertainty 24 , 25 . This paper introduces a data-driven EG MPC framework to optimize the energy dispatch of a hybrid renewable energy system powering an offshore aquaculture facility. Our key contributions are as follows. 1) We propose a linear regression-based model to char- acterize the hourly energy consumption of a floating aquaculture facility based on real-world data. This model captures variations in energy demand across hours. 2) We introduce an EG MPC approach for energy dispatch, leveraging evolutionary game dynamics to enhance the search process within the receding-horizon optimizationframework. This approach balances cost minimization and system reliability while adapting to fluctuating re- newable energy availability. 3) We evaluate the proposed framework using site-specific data and compare its performance with conventional MPC, optimization-based strategies, and rule-based op- timization strategies. The results demonstrate that EG MPC achieves lower total costs compared to other pop- ular benchmark algorithms. The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the framework of the whole system. Section 3 details the proposed EG MPC algorithm. Section 4 discusses the simulation setup and results. Finally, Section 5 provides conclusions and future research directions. II. S YSTEM FRAMEWORK The proposed EG-MPC framework optimizes the hybrid renewable energy dispatch of an autonomous ship, integrating solar, wind, battery storage, and diesel backup to ensure cost- effective and reliable operation 26 . The whole framework is illustrated in Fig. 2. At its core, the MPC module provides predictive optimiza- tion over a rolling horizon, determining the best charging, discharging, and backup power usage while ensuring system constraints are met, such as battery SOC limits and renewable energy prioritization 27 . To enhance efficiency, an Evolu- tionary Game Algorithm refines dispatch strategies iteratively through selection, crossover, and mutation, reducing computa- tional complexity and improving adaptability to uncertainties in renewable generation and energy demand. To ensure
__label__energy	Monitoring and Prediction in Smart Energy Systems via Multi-timescale Nexting Johannes Feldmaier, Dominik Meyer, Hao Shen, Klaus Diepold Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Technische Universit at M unchen, Germany Abstract Reliable prediction of system status is a highly demanded functionality of smart energy systems, which can enable users or human operators to react quickly to poten- tial future system changes. By adopting the multi-timescale nexting method, we develop an architecture of human-in-the- loop energy control system, which is capable of casting short- term predictive information about the speciﬁc smart energy system. The developed architecture does either require a system model nor additional acquisition of (sensor) data in the existing system conﬁguration. Our ﬁrst experiments demonstrate the performance of the proposed control architecture in an electrical heating system simulation. In the second experiment, we verify the effectiveness of our developed structure in simulating a heating system in a thermal model of a building, by employing natural EnergyPlus temperature data. Index Terms smart energy systems, prediction learning, rein- forcement learning, multi-timescale nexting. I. I NTRODUCTION Continuous monitoring of energy systems is crucial for en- suring reliability and security of the systems, such as generator, grid infrastructure, and residential home. There has been a signiﬁcant effort in developing failure detection techniques and outlier detection algorithms. These methods are expected to deliver reliable estimations or predictions of the system status, so as to assist human operators (or users) with early warnings or updates of potential issues. Commonly, statistics or system models are employed to detect anomalies in the monitored (sensor) data, cf. 1 5 . Most predictive control systems use one timescale to predict the future behaviour of the considered system. This means the predictions about what is to be happening in the future is restricted to a ﬁxed number of seconds or timesteps. On the other side, human beings as well as other animals seem to use experiences from earlier situations to anticipate what is about to happen next and adjust their actions accordingly. Those living things which have been capable of making accurate predictions about the future are better prepared for suitable actions and perceptions than others. This ability makes it easier for them to take advantage of upcoming opportunities as well as to evade future danger. The process of continuously anticipating the immediate future in a local and personal sense is called nexting . The work in 6 demonstrates a technical implementation of the nexting behavior on a mobile robot. The robot was able to learn how to simultaneously predict all its raw sensor signals at different timescales in real time. In a recent work, such predictions of raw sensor signals are used in a laser welding robot to improve the quality of the weld seam by adjustingthe process parameters adaptively 7 . A similar concept of automata learning has been also applied to model, analyze, and detect anomalies in energy consumption of a system, cf. 8 . In this work, we propose an architecture of human-in-the- loop energy control system, which is capable of predicting semantically meaningful information about an energy system. It enables human operators to take such predictive knowledge into account to further adjust the goal (or system conﬁgura- tion) to keep the system in an optimal state. Our proposed architecture consists of three interative parts, namely, the physical energy system to be monitored, the operator (or user), and the NEXTMon system. The actual physical system is monitored constantly, and grants access to its system states (sensor readings, statistical data) and controller actions. These data are processed by the NEXTMon system and displayed to the user as additional predictive information. The operator as the human-in-the loop assesses all available data and controls the physical system. This human-in-the-loop architecture is depicted in Figure 3. Compared to conventional prediction algorithms the NEXTMon system does not require an exact system model and therefore is not limited to speciﬁc energy systems. The NEXTMon system combines external information sources (like weather forecasts), sensor measurements, and control ac- tions in order to learn the system behavior. While conventional algorithms often rely on ﬁxed models or regression functions, our approach is able to approximate arbitrary functions (simi- lar to neural networks) and adapt them to changing conditions. Learning a predictive model generally requires a lot of data samples and only predicts one timescale. The proposed nexting algorithm requires only few data samples per update step and simultaneously updates weight vectors for multiple timescales. In the following, we describe both tile coding (Section II) and the nexting algorithm (Section III) as they are the main components of the NEXTMon system. In Section IV and V we describe an example how the system can be used in a room heating scenario. Finally, we present some experimental results in Section VI and a conclusion in Section VII. II. S TATE REPRESENTATION AS MULTI SENSOR OBSERVATIONS Reinforcement Learning (RL) 9 is an important machine learning discipline and has been successfully applied to solve model free control problems. A common task of RL is to learn the so-called value function which is designed or constructed to reﬂect the speciﬁc control task, and often deﬁned as thearXiv:1607.05015v1 cs.SY 18 Jul 2016 Tiling 1 Tiling 2 Sensor value spaceselected tiles actual 2D sensor valueFig. 1. Tile coding with two tilings for a 2D sensor value state space (adopted from 9 ) expected reward. The reward signal often carries incomplete information towards the ultimate goal of the problem. Design- ing the reward signal differently enables applications of RL in robotics, control, and economics. A most classic RL method is the so-called temporal differ- ence (TD) learning algorithm. Arguably, the most convenient characteristic of TD methods is via calculating the difference in estimates of the value function between simply two con- secutive time steps. Computationally, this requires even less effort than the common stochastic gradient algorithms. This data efﬁciency is convenient in domains where the current state is acquired with lot of sensors. The algorithm applied in this work is a combination of
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	Windowed Carbon Nanotubes for Efficient CO 2 Removal from Natural Gas Hongjun Liu, Valentino R. Cooper, Sheng Dai , , and De-en Jiang , Chemical Sciences Division and Materials Science and Technology Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831 , and Department of Chemistry, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37966 To whom correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: jiangd ornl.gov . ABSTRACT We demonstrate from molecular dynamic s simulations that windowed carbon nanotubes can efficiently separate CO 2 from the CO 2 CH 4 mixture, resembling polymeric hollow fibers for gas separation. Three CO 2 CH 4 mixtures with 30 , 50 and 80 CO 2 are investigated as a function of applied pressure f rom 80 to 180 bar. In all simulated conditions, only CO 2 permeation is observed; CH 4 is completely rejected by the nitrogen -functionalized windows or pores on the nanotube wall in the accessible timescale, while maintaining a fast diffusion rate along the tube. The estimated time -dependent CO 2 permeance ranges from 107 to 105 GPU (gas permeation unit), compared with 100 GPU for typical polymeric membranes. CO 2 CH 4 selectivity is estimated to be 108 from the difference in free -energy barriers of permeatio n. This work suggests that a windowed carbon nanotube can be used as a highly efficient medium, configurable in hollow -fiber -like modules, for removing CO 2 from natural gas. TOC graphic CO2 CH4 KEYWORDS: Natural g as sweetening, carbon dioxide removal, window ed carbon nanotube, molecular dynamics, nanofluidics , nanoporous material . Natural gas has become increasingly important as a source of cleaner energy than coal and oil as unconventional sources such as shale gas are being explored .1-2 Natural gas usually contains excess CO 2 that must be removed to meet pipeline and heating value specifications. CO 2 CH 4 separations are also vital in landfill gas recovering and enhanced oil recovery. The most widely used p rocess to sweeten natural gas employ s the a lkanolamine aqueous solution to selectively absorb CO 2 and H2S from sour natural gas streams .3 The process is energy intensive , as the amine solution needs to be heated up to recover the acid gases ; in addition, ami ne is prone to degradation and evaporation loss . Due to their intrinsic energy efficiency, membranes have been increasingly adopted in industry for gas separations .4-5 Polymer ic membrane s in a hollow -fiber module have become the de facto standard for industrial gas separation by membranes , due to the ease in solution processing of a polymer into spiral wound hollow fibers.6-8 A polymer membrane s performance is usually bound by a tradeoff between permeability and selectivity.9 Although cellulosic acetate has been a workhorse in industrial membrane separations, novel polymers continue to att ract researchers interest, in a goal to break the upper bound; thermal ly rearrange d polymer s10-11 and PIMs (polymers of intrinsic microporosity)12-13 are such examples. The permeance or productivity of a membrane is inversely proportional to the thickness of the membrane. This relationship led us to propos e porous gr aphene for gas separations as a one- atom -thick membrane.14 After this proof of concept, m any more computational studies of interesting separations were followed.15-25 For example, it has been shown that h elium isotope separation can be achieved through the nanoporous graphen e.16, 20 -21 Beyond gas separations , Cohen -Tanugi and Grossman22 showed the great potential of nanoporous graphene for water desalination , well above the conventional reverse osmosis membrane . More excitingly, Bunch and coworkers have experimentally demonstrated the gas -separating power of a porous graphene by purposefully creating subnanometer pores on a graphene sheet and observing different leaking rates for various gases ;26 this elegant experiment convi ncingly showed selective pass ing-through of H 2 molecules. To move porous graphene towards practical gas separation, a configuration such as the polymeric hollow fibers is highly desirable. Moreover, porous graphene s ability for the important CO 2 CH 4 separation, however, has not been demonstrated. A close analog to a hollow fiber would be a carbon nanotube. Fast transport of gas molecules through carbon nanotubes has been demonstrated before .27-30 In addition, aligned carbon nanotubes embedded in a polymer matrix have been shown to yield high-flux transport of liquids .29, 31 To combine the advantages of ca rbon nanotubes, porous gra phene , and polymeric hollow fibers , we propose a novel system windowed carbon nanotube for gas separation. It comprises a carbon nanotube with molecular size windows or pores on the wall. Such a system has three advantages: (1) the pore size and functi onality can be tuned for selective gas separation, thereby yielding high selectivity; ( 2) the atom -thin wall will provide high permeance, while the tube configuration can be aligned and packed together into a module, just like polymeric hollow fibers used in gas separation; ( 3) the tube can provide a fast -transport channel for the reten tate gas. In this letter , we demonstrate the capacity of windowed nanotubes with nitrogen doped pores for h igh-permeance and high-selectivity of CO 2 remov al from natural gas using molecular dynamics simulations . Our windowed nanotube model includes two coaxial single -wall carbon nanotubes . The outer one is pristine and the inner one is windowed. The outer tube is used to conveniently define a clear boundary and not absolutely necessary; the inner tube with its windows provide the gas - separating capability . This coaxial setup can allow us to get an estimate of the pressure drop as the gas molecules diffuse across the wall of the inner tube into the space between the two tubes. The windows or nanopores of the inner tube are prepared as follows: two neighboring benzene rings are removed, and four dangling bonds are saturated by hydrogen, while the other four dangling bonds together with their carbon atoms are replaced with nitrogen atoms (Figure 1a). Hereafter we refer to this pore as
__label__energy	An interpretable machine-learned model for international oil trade network Wen-Jie Xiea,b, Na Weia, Wei-Xing Zhoua,b,c, aSchool of Business, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China bResearch Center for Econophysics, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China cDepartment of Mathematics, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China Abstract Energy security and energy trade are the cornerstones of global economic and social development. The structural robustness of the international oil trade network (iOTN) plays an important role in the global economy. We integrate the machine learning optimization algorithm, game theory, and utility theory for learning an oil trade decision-making model which contains the beneﬁt endowment and cost endowment of economies in international oil trades. We have reconstructed the network degree, clustering coefﬁcient, and closeness of the iOTN well to verify the effectiveness of the model. In the end, policy simulations based on game theory and agent-based model are carried out in a more realistic environment. We ﬁnd that the export-oriented economies are more vulnerable to be affected than import-oriented economies after receiving external shocks. Moreover, the impact of the increase and decrease of trade friction costs on the international oil trade is asymmetrical and there are signiﬁcant differences between international organizations. Keywords: Global oil market, Oil trade network, Machine learning, Policy simulation JEL: C1, P4, Z13 1. Introduction Energy security and energy cooperation are vital factors affecting global economic stability and development. In the face of natural disasters, local wars, and climate changes, how to ensure energy security and stable energy cooperation is an issue that needs to be addressed 1, 2, 3, 4 . The distribution of petroleum resources is markedly imbalanced. The large-scale and long-distance transportation has caused tight capacity and increased costs, which have affected the coordinated development of the energy industry 5, 6, 7, 8 . In addition to the fragile global energy supply-demand balance and frequent oil market ﬂuctuations, local wars and sanctions, international oil price shocks and various other non-economic factors also affect international cooperation in energy 9, 10, 11 . How to solve these problems requires cross-disciplinary cooperation. The remarkable development of artiﬁcial intelligence technologies and methods have provided new tools and methods for addressing the problem of irrational energy structure and for expanding international energy cooperation. In recent years, the popularity of artiﬁcial intelligence and machine learning algorithms has extended to economics and ﬁnance research 12, 13, 14 . Increasingly, scholars adopt machine learning algorithms to analyze and solve the complex problems encountered in their respective research areas, achieving many good results and encountering con- siderable challenges 15 . For example, deep learning in economic forecasting suffer from a well-known and criticized black box problem. Even though deep learning algorithms can improve the accuracy of predictions, the economic im- plications of the model cannot be reasonably explained 16 . The scholars in the ﬁeld of ﬁnancial economics are very much focused on analyzing the causal relationships between variables, rather than just being satisﬁed with the corre- lations found by most deep learning algorithms 17 . However, many scholars believe that causal relationships and Corresponding author. Corresponding to: 130 Meilong Road, P.O. Box 114, School of Business, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China. Email address: wxzhou ecust.edu.cn (Wei-Xing Zhou) Preprint submitted to Elsevier March 3, 2023arXiv:2303.01121v1 physics.soc-ph 2 Mar 2023 correlations can be combined for analysis 18, 19 . While machine learning methods are mostly used to accomplish prediction tasks in the ﬁeld of economics 20, 21, 22 , the biggest highlight of this paper s approach is to provide interpretable economic models, which have very large application scenarios, by ﬁtting interpretable model parameters through machine learning optimization methods. Although the application of machine learning algorithms in the economic ﬁeld has certain limitations, scholars have achieved many research results in recent years by using machine learning methods to study problems in the economic ﬁeld 23, 24, 25 . Zhao et al. use machine learning methods to predict energy prices and evolutionary trends 26, 27 . In addition, the study of energy consumption or energy supply and demand based on machine learning methods is also a hot research topic 28 . How to produce convincing results applying machine learning methods has always been a concern in machine learning and computer science. As a result, a large number of studies and tools addressing the interpretability of deep learning algorithms have also emerged 19 . We believe that more practical machine learning tools will be widely used in the economic ﬁeld 29 . In a complex trading environment, economies decision-making is affected by many factors. How to represent these heterogeneous economies attributes and environmental factors is an important issue. In different decision- making environments, the factors that affect the attributes of the economies are different, and many factors are unquan- tiﬁable due to privacy and difﬁculty of collection. We introduce a representation method of heterogeneous economies in complex environments 19 . Based on the decision-making process of economies, we integrate machine learning optimization algorithms with the oil trade network to directly learn and reproduce the decision-making process of the economies. In order to simulate the oil trade system more realistically and provide more practical strategic support for governments and organizations in decision-making, we provide a new analysis framework to directly learn the representation and decision-making process of the economies from the iOTNs, and then integrate game theory with the agent-based model, and ﬁnally achieve the purpose of policy simulation and evaluation. The main contributions can be summarized in three respects: 1) We construct a heterogeneous economies decision- making model based on utility theory and game theory, considering the endowments of heterogeneous economies in oil trade. 2) We use machine learning optimization algorithms to learn the endowment feature vectors of heterogeneous economies and examine the interpretability of model parameters. 3) Under the scenario of trade friction changes, we explore the evolution of economic entities. For example, policy simulations and policy evaluations are conducted, considering the impact
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	Abstract A non -intrusive conformal electromagnetic -based monitoring of elemental sulfur deposition within a natural gas -carrying pipeline is presented. The deposited sulfur behaves as a superstrate layer above a sensing microstrip patch antenna that is optimally placed on the inner wall of the gas pipeline. Increasing the superstrate thickness by the sulfur deposition alters the antenna resonance behavior, which can be monitored externally. The effect of uneven or bumpy sulfur deposition is studied. Sensing antennas positioned outside a plexiglass pipeline are also investigated to observe the change in the antenna impedance matching with accumulating sulfur superstrate. Lab -based measured results agreed well with the simulated responses using commercial electromagnet ic software. The proposed low -cost and easy -to-implement detection technique exhibits an accurate estimation of the deposited sulfur thickness inside the natural gas -carrying pipelines . Index Terms Elemental sulfur, Sensing Antenna, Gas Pipeline, Deposit ion I. Introduction Pipelines are the primary means of transporting petroleum products such as natural gas, oil, and other vital chemicals that contribute to the world s economy. Oil and gas pipeline networks have proven to be the most cost -effective and secure method of delivering crude oil, and they meet the high demand for efficiency and dependability. In a natural gas -carrying pipeline, m ost solid contaminants are removed using sophisticated filtering systems in the processing plants. However, during the long -distance transmission of Hydrogen Sulfide (H 2S) gas produced during oil and natural gas extraction, the desublimation process produces elemental sulfur particles from its gas form 1 - 4 . Given such findings, sulfur removal techniques (pigging, chemical, and mechanical cleaning) were investigated 5 - 6 . However, such techniques incur additional costs. Therefore, it is crucial to develop a predictive method to determine elemental sulfur s early formation and deposition to avoid severe consequences. The elemental sulfur eventually accumulates on the inner surface of the pipeline. Accumulating these unwanted elemental sulfur leads to plant shutdown by clogging the sensors, control valves, and even the pipeline. Thus, efficient monitoring of the deposited sulfur is critical for the successful delive ry and metering of natural gas products 7 - 8 . Although limited studies are available on electrically monitoring the sulfur deposition rate, popular sensors used in the petrochemical industry to determine oil -carrying pipeline s flow Manuscript received xxx; accepted xxx. Date of publication xxx; date of current version xxx. (Corresponding author: Hussein Attia, hattia kfupm.edu.sa ) This work was supported by the Center for Communication Systems and S ensing at King Fahd University of Petroleum Minerals (KFUPM) through project No. INCS2105. rate and phase -fractions can be of interest. They include impedance probes, acoustic sensors, fiber -optic, and microwave sensors 9 - 11 . Compared to other methods, microwave sensors are relatively small in size, easy to install, maintain, and the reflected signal is used t o obtain data about the deposition rate without interfering with the flow. Due to these advantages, the microwave measurement method has attracted many researchers 12 - 15 . A non -invasive and straightforward microwave sensor, reported in 16 , used two s imple antennas to identify the ratio of the three -phase (gas, brine, oil) contents within a petroleum -carrying pipeline. The first antenna is designed to detect the low -loss gas and oil ratio, while the second antenna detects the lossy brine contents of th e stratified flow. According to 17 , a non -invasive microwave measurement system was developed to monitor the reflected microwave signal from a gas -solid two -phase flow in a vertical pipeline for different particle properties and sizes. A microwave system with a pair of patch antenna sensors and a coaxial probe was developed in 18 to measure oil, gas, and water fraction in a pipeline. The microstrip patch antennas in transmission mode and coaxial probe in reflection mode are used to estimate the three -phase flow. This technique uses complicated empirical and physics -based models. A circular waveguide with a resonant iris structure attached to the aperture was designed in 19 to detect and monitor solid contaminants in gas pipelines. The concentration of contaminants is determined by analyzing M. G. Magam, H . Attia, K . K. Qureshi, and S . I. M. Sheikh are with the Center for Communication Systems and Sensing, and the Electrical Engineering Dept at KFUPM, Dhahran, 31261, Saudi Arabia. Microwave Sensing of Elemental Sulfur Deposition in Gas Pipelines Mus ab G. Magam, Hussein Attia, Member , IEEE , Khurram Karim Qureshi, Senior Member , IEEE, and Sharif I. M. Sheikh, Senior Member , IEEE Natural gas pipeline Deposited Sulfur Network Analyzer Sensing Patch Antenna 2 the reflection coefficient of the transmitting and receiving probes at a specific resonant frequency. In 20 , an invasive microwave method was used to accurately monitor sand s onset, and deposition rate within a pe troleum pipeline, where properly integrating the probe with minimum leakage remains a challenge. A microwave system was designed in 21 - 23 , where microwave transmission and reflection responses are analyzed to detect the presence of black power contamin ants within the natural gas carrying pipeline. This process involved complicated measurements and analysis processes since both the magnitude and phase responses were recorded and analyzed. In this paper, multiple conformal antenna resonators are optimall y integrated internally and externally to detect sulfur deposition within a long -distance natural gas -carrying pipeline. The elemental sulfur deposited on the microstrip antenna s surface is considered a superstrate, which affects the antenna resonance cha racteristics. Thus, with increasing superstrate thickness, the antennas mounted on the inner wall of a metallic pipeline demonstrated decreasing resonant frequencies. In comparison, the antennas mounted on the outer wall of a plexiglass pipeline demonstrat ed an increased reflected power level ( S 11 ). Although more accurate monitoring is achieved when integrating antennas within the inner wall of the pipeline, antennas placed outside the natural gas pipeline demonstrated an advantage of single -frequency o peration. This is important to achieve the
__label__energy	UnsupervisedSpatio-TemporalStateEstimationforFine-grained AdaptiveAnomalyDiagnosisofIndustrialCyber-physicalSystems HailiSuna,1,YanHuangb,1,LanshengHana, ,CaiFua,ChunjieZhoub aHubeiKeyLaboratoryofDistributedSystemSecurity,HubeiEngineeringResearchCenteronBigDataSecurity, SchoolofCyberScienceandEngineering,HuazhongUniversityofScienceandTechnology,Wuhan,430074, China bNationalKeyLaboratoryofScienceandTechnologyonMultispectralInformationProcessing,Schoolof ArtificialIntelligenceandAutomation,HuazhongUniversityofScienceandTechnology,Wuhan,430074,China Abstract Accuratedetectionanddiagnosisofabnormalbehaviorssuchasnetworkattacksfrommultivariate timeseries(MTS)arecrucialforensuringthestableandeffectiveoperationofindustrial cyber-physicalsystems(CPS).However,existingresearchespaylittleattentiontothelogical dependenciesamongsystemworkingstates,andhavedifficultiesinexplainingtheevolution mechanismsofabnormalsignals.Torevealthespatio-temporalassociationrelationshipsand evolutionmechanismsoftheworkingstatesofindustrialCPS,thispaperproposesafine-grained adaptiveanomalydiagnosismethod(i.e.MAD-Transformer)toidentifyanddiagnoseanomalies inMTS.MAD-Transformerfirstconstructsatemporalstatematrixtocharacterizeandestimate thechangepatternsofthesystemstatesinthetemporaldimension.Then,tobetterlocatethe anomalies,aspatialstatematrixisalsoconstructedtocapturetheinter-sensorstatecorrelation relationshipswithinthesystem.Subsequently,basedonthesetwotypesofstatematrices,a three-branchstructureofseries-temporal-spatialattentionmoduleisdesignedtosimultaneously capturetheseries,temporal,andspacedependenciesamongMTS.Afterwards,threeassociated alignmentlossfunctionsandareconstructionlossareconstructedtojointlyoptimizethemodel. Finally,anomaliesaredeterminedanddiagnosedbycomparingtheresidualmatriceswiththe originalmatrices.Weconductedcomparativeexperimentsonfivepubliclydatasetsspanningthree applicationdomains(servicemonitoring,spatialandearthexploration,andwatertreatment),along withapetroleumrefiningsimulationdatasetcollectedbyourselves.Theresultsdemonstratethat MAD-Transformercanadaptivelydetectfine-grainedanomalieswithshortduration,and outperformsthestate-of-the-artbaselinesintermsofnoiserobustnessandlocalization performance. Keywords:IndustrialCyber-physicalsystems,Anomalydiagnosis,Stateestimation, Spatio-temporalstatematrix,Anomalylocalization,Severityassessment 1Equalcontribution; CorrespondingAuthor:LanshengHan;E-mailaddress:hanlansheng hust.edu.cn(LanshengHan), hailisun hust.edu.cn(HailiSun); 1.Introduction Withtherapiddevelopmentoftechnology,complexcyber-physicalsystems(CPSs)have becomeubiquitousincontemporaryindustrialfields.Thesesystemsintegratecomputationand physicalprocesses,realizetheseamlessintegrationandflowofinformation,therebygreatly improvingproductionefficiency,systemperformance,andresourceutilization.Invarious industries,suchassmartmanufacturing,intelligenttransportation,andsmartenergymanagement, CPSsaregraduallyreplacingtraditionalsystemsandbecominganimportantdrivingforcefor industrialupgradingandtransformation.ThewidespreadapplicationofcomplexCPSsbrings unprecedentedopportunitiesforchangesinthecurrentindustrialfields.CPSsachieveintelligent controloftheproductionprocessbyreal-timemonitoringofvariousequipment(suchassensors) states,productquality,andenvironmentalparametersontheproductionline.Basedondata analysisandartificialintelligencealgorithms,thesesystemscanpredictequipmentfailures, optimizeproductionprocesses,reduceresourcewaste,andsignificantlyenhanceproduction efficiencyandproductquality. However,theseCPSsarehighlyvulnerabletomaliciouscyber-attacks,withsevere consequencesensuing.Forexample,onMarch7,2019,Venezuela spowergridsuffereda cyber-attack,resultinginanationwideblackoutthatcausedmorethan 800millionineconomic lossesand46deaths 1 .TheseCPSscontinuouslygeneratelargeamountsofmultivariatetime series(MTS)data,suchasthereadingsfromsensorsmonitoringflowrates,temperatures,and liquidlevelsinwatertreatmentplants.Therefore,researchershaveproposedmethodsbasedon MTSanalysistodetectattackbehaviorsinCPSs. Sensorerrors,datatransmissionfluctuations,systemvariability,andexternalenvironmental interferencefrequentlyintroducenoiseintotheMTSdatageneratedbyCPS.Thisnecessitates algorithmswithstrongnoiseresistancecapabilitiestoensurehighaccuracyandlowfalsealarm rates(FAR)inanomalydetection,whicharecrucialforguaranteeingthenormaloperationof CPSsandmitigatingsubstantialhigheconomiclosses.Moreover,tofacilitateoperatorstoquickly andaccuratelyidentifythecausesandlocationsofanomalies,itisusuallynecessarytoprecisely locatetheanomalies,thatis,todeterminewhichsensorscausethecorrespondinganomalies. Inreal-worldscenarios,thefault-tolerancemechanismofmodernsystemsimpliesthat short-termanomaliescausedbytimefluctuationsorsystemstatetransitionsmaynotultimately leadtorealsystemfailures.Therefore,ifanassessmentoftheseverityoftheanomaliescanbe provided,itwillhelptheoperatorsfindasuitabletrade-offbetweentheimpactoftheanomalies andthelossescausedbydowntime.Afterall,industrialsystemsaredifferentfromtraditionalIT systems,andtheirdowntimecanalsocauseseriouseconomiclosses.Itisreportedthata one-minutedowntimeofacarmanufacturermayresultinupto 20,000ineconomiclosses 2 . Thispaperassumesthattheseverityoftheanomaliesisproportionaltothenumberofanomalous devices(suchassensorsandactuators)andthedurationoftheanomalies,asshowninFigure1, therearetwoanomaliesA1andA2.ItcanbeseenthatA1has5anomalouspointsandA2has3 anomalouspoints,andA1lastslongerthanA2.Therefore,weconsiderA1tobemoreseverethan A2. Inconstructinganomalydetectionanddiagnosisalgorithmsforindustrialfields,oneofthe firstchallengesweencounteristhescarcityoflabeledsamples,andinsomecases,theremaynot beanylabeledsamplesatall.Insuchsituations,duetotheinsufficientnumberoftrainingsamples andinterferencefromnoise,traditionalsupervisedlearningalgorithmsmayleadtooverfittingor underfittingissues,therebygreatlyreducingthemodel sgeneralizationcapability.Inrecentyears, someresearchershaveproposedanomalydetectionalgorithmsbasedonunsupervisedlearning, suchasstatistical-basedmethods 3 ,distance-basedmethods 4 ,clustering-basedmethods 5 6 , densityestimationmethods 7 8 ,etal.Althoughtheycanmakeinitialjudgmentsonthe anomaliesinCPSsystems,mostofthemoverlookthetemporalassociationpresentinMTSdata, failingtocapturethetemporalevolutionpatternsofthetimeseriesthemselves. Figure1.Explanationofanomalyseverity:A1andA2aretwoanomaliesintheSWATdataset.A1 ismoreseverethanA2,asitcausesmoreanomalouspointsandlastslonger.Therefore,we considerA1tohavegreaterdamageandhigherseveritythanA2. Additionally,althoughsomedeeplearningmodelsbasedonLSTMarecapableofcapturing temporaldependencieswithintimeseries,theyoverlookthespatialdependenciesthatexistwithin thebusinessdomainofthetimeseries.Intherealworld,providingoperatorswiththelocationof anomaliesandcorrespondingexceptionresultassessmentsbasedontheseverityofeventsis meaningful.However,existinganomalydetectionmethodsforMTSrarelyprovideassessmentsof theseverityofanomalies.AlthoughMSCRED 9 cancapturespatialdependencieswithinMTSto determinethemostlikelylocationsofanomalies,itignoresthetemporaldependenciesbetween them,anditsdiagnosisofanomalyseverityisrelativelycoarse-grained. Accuratedetectionanddiagnosisofanomalousbehaviorssuchasnetworkattacksfrom multivariatetimeseriesiscrucialforensuringthestableandeffectiveoperationofindustrial information-physicalsystems.Tothisend,notonlydowerequiremeticulouslydesignedmodels thatcapturethetemporalcorrelationswithinMTS,butalsoalearningmechanismthatrecognizes thespatialbusinesscorrelationsbetweendifferenttimeseriesdata.Additionally,itisnecessaryto localizeanomalousresultsandadaptivelyassesstheirseverityatafine-grainedlevel,toenhance theinterpretabilityofanomaliesandacceleratetheresponsespeedofoperators.Existingresearch haspaidlessattentiontothelogicaldependencieswithinthesystem sworkingstate,resultingin anincompleteexplanationoftheevolutionmechanismofsystemanomalysignals. Tocaptureboththetemporalandspatialbusinessdependenciesamongmultivariatetime seriesandtolocateanddiagnosetheseverityofanomalieswithfinegranularity,thispaper proposesanovelunsupervisedfine-grainedanomalydetectionanddiagnosismethodtoensurethe safeoperationofindustrialsystems.Specifically,weuseatemporalstatematrixtodepictthe overallsystemstateatdifferenttimesteps,capturingthetemporaldependenciesinMTS. Meanwhile,weuseanotherspatialstatematrixtocapturethespatialdependenciesamongtime series.Then,thesetwostatematricesandtheoriginaltimeseriesarefedintoaspeciallydesigned MAD-Transformerwiththree-branchattention,toexplicitlylearnthetemporal,spatial,and sequentialdependenciesinmultivariatetimeseries.Next,wedesignthreecorrelationdifference functionstoalignthesethreedependenciesinthefeaturespace.Finally,basedonthe reconstructedsequence,temporal,andspatialmatrices,wecomputetheanomalyscoresandthe correspondingresidualmatrices.Theanomalyscoresareusedtodeterminewhetheratimepointis anomalousornot,thespatialresidualmatrixisusedtoidentifythemostlikelylocationofthe anomalies,andthetemporalresidualmatrixisusedtodiagnosetheseverityoftheanomalieswith finegranularity. Ingeneral,ourmaincontributionsare: (1)Weproposeanunsupervisedanomalouspatternrecognitionmodel,MAD-Transformer, fordetectinganddiagnosinganomaliesinCPSsystems.Thismodelcharacterizestheevolution patternsofanomaloussignalsinCPSsystemsfrombothtemporalandspatialdimensions. Throughfine-grainedhealthstateestimationandanomalylocalization,itensuresthestableand secureoperationofindustrialsystems. (2)ThetemporalandspatialbusinessstatedependenciesbetweenMTSaremodeled separatelyastemporalstatematricesandspatialstatematrices.Additionally,athree-branch structureattentionmodule,MAD-Attention,isdesignedtoextractcorrelativeassociationpatterns fromtheoriginaltimeseries,temporalevolutionstatematrices,andbusinessspatialstatematrices. Threealignmentlossesareformulatedtoalignthesethreetypesofassociationpatterns,thereby extractingmoreinformativefeatures. (3)Bycomputingtheresidualsbetweenthereconstructedtimeandspacefeaturematrices andtheoriginalmatrix,itispossibletoidentifythemostlikelylocationofanomaliesandtoassess theseverityofanomalieswithfine-grainedprecision.Furthermore,theseverityofanomaliescan alsobeevaluatedadaptivelyatagranularlevelbasedonthedata sbusinesscontext. (4)Extensivecomparativeexperimentswereconductedonfivepublicdatasetsfromthree applications(servicemonitoring,space,andearthexploration,andwatertreatment)andone self-builtpetroleumrefiningsimulationdataset.Theresultsdemonstratedthesuperior performanceoftheproposedmethodcomparedto21benchmarkmodels,aswellasitsaccuracyin anomalylocalizationanditscapabilityforadaptivefine-grainedanomalydiagnosis. 2.RelatedWork UnsupervisedMTSanomalydetectionisanimportantandchallengingreal-worldproblem. Recently,researchershaveproposedvariousmethodsforthistask.Basedonthecriterionfor anomalydetermination,thesemethodscanberoughlyclassifiedintodistance-based,density estimation-based,clustering-based,prediction-based,andreconstruction-basedmethods. Distance-basedmethodsareatraditionaltype.Forexample,thek-NearestNeighbors(KNN) algorithm 4 calculatestheanomalyscoreforeachdatasamplebasedontheaveragedistanceto itsknearestneighbors.Fordensityestimation-basedmethods,classicalmethodsarelocaloutlier factor(LOF) 10 andconnectivityoutlierfactor(COF) 11 ,whichidentifyoutliersby calculatinglocaldensityandlocalconnectivity,respectively.DAGMM 8 andMPPCACD 12 integrateGaussianmixturemodelstoestimatethedensityofrepresentations.Clustering-based methodscomputeanomalyscoresbycalculatingthedistancefromsamplestoclustercentersis usedastheanomalyscore.SVDD 13 andDeepSVDD 14 gatherrepresentationsofnormal dataintoacompactcluster.THOC 15 fusesmulti-scaletemporalfeaturesfromintermediate layersusingahierarchicalclusteringmechanismanddetectsanomaliesbasedonmulti-layer distances.ITAD 16 conductsclusteringondecomposedtensors. Despitetheeffectivenessoftheabovethreetypesofmethodsinvariousapplications,they maynothandlemultivariatetimeserieswell,astheycannotcapturetemporaldependencies amongtimeseries.Toaddressthisissue,manydeeplearning-basedmethodshavestarted employingARIMAorLSTMtomodelthetemporaldependencies.Thesemethodscanberoughly categorizedintoprediction-basedandreconstruction-basedmethods. Themethodbasedonpredictionpredictsthevalueofthenexttimestepbypredictingthe residualanddiscriminatesanomaliesbasedonthepredictionerror.VAR 17 extendsARIMAand predictsthefuturebasedonlaggedcorrelationcovariance.Hundmanetal. 18 demonstratedthe feasibilityoflongshort-termmemory(LSTM)indetectingspacecraftanomaliesandintroduceda methodfordynamicallysettingthresholdswithoutrelyingonannotations.Similarly,Tariqetal. 19 proposedadata-drivensatelliteanomalydetectionalgorithmbasedonLSTM,which simultaneouslyusesneuralnetworksandprobabilisticclusteringtoidentifyanomaliesfrom telemetrydata. Reconstruction-basedmethodsdetectanomaliesbycalculatingreconstructionlossesbetween reconstructedsamplesandrealsamples.Park 20 proposedanLSTM-VAEmodel,which employsanLSTMbackbonefortemporaldependenciesmodelingandutilizesaVariational Autoencoder(VAE)forreconstruction.Suetal. 21 furtherextendedtheLSTM-VAEand constructedOmniAnomaly,whichadoptedanormalizedflowandutilizedreconstruction probabilitiesforanomalydetection.Lietal. 22 developedInterFusionwhichutilizeda hierarchicalVAEasabackbone.Theymodeledboththeinter-dependenciesand intra-dependenciesamongmultiplesequences.Basedonadversarialtrainingofautoencoders, Audibertetal. 23 proposedUSAD,whichaimstoidentifyanomaliesfrommultivariatetime seriesinafastandstablemanner.Additionally,recentlypopularGenerativeAdversarialNetworks (GAN) 24 arealsousedforconstructingreconstruction-basedanomalydetectionmodels 25 26 27 .Althoughthesetwomethodsachievebettergeneralizationcapabilitiesthan traditionalapproaches,theysolelycapturetemporaldependenciesatthetimesteplevel,thus limitingtheirabilitytodetectrareanomaliesinmultivariatetimeseries. Exceptfortheaforementionedmethods,otherworks 28 29 30 dynamicallyconstruct inter-sequencegraphsacrosstimeandperformgraphpredictionorreconstructiontasks.For example,EvoNet 28 extractsrepresentativeMTSsegmentsasnodesandlearnstheirtransition probabilitiesduringthetrainingprocess.However,itaimstocapturethetemporalpatternchanges betweendifferentperiods,ratherthantheinter-sequencerelationshipchanges.MSCRED 9 uses threesignaturematricesofdifferentscalestomodeltheinter-correlationsamongmultivariatetime seriesandevaluatesanomalyseveritybycalculatingtheresidualsofthesematrices.However,its diagnosisresultsarenotonlyslightlycoarsebutalsoincreasethecomputationalandstorage overhead.Chenetal. 31 usedynamicgraphstomodelthedependenciesamongmultivariatetime series,buttheycannotdiagnoseandlocateanomaliesinessence. Unlikeexistingmodelsthatonlymodeltemporalorsequentialdependenciesseparately,we proposestatematricestorepresentthetemporalandspatialdependenciesinamultivariatetime seriessegmentandconstructathree-branchattentionstructureMAD-Attention,tocapturethe sequential,temporal,andspatialcorrelationsamongtimeseries.Asaresult,weachievea complementarycharacterizationextractionofthemultivariatetimeseriesfromthreedimensions: sequence,time,andspace,whichgreatlyenhancestheinformationofextractedfeatures.Moreover, wealsodesignedthreealignmentcorrelationfunctionstoalignthesethreecorrelationsinfeature spacetoobtainmoreexpressiverepresentations.Finally,bycalculatingresidualsbetweenthe reconstructedmatricesandinputmatrices,wecanidentifyanomalies,locatetheirprobable positions,anddiagnosetheirseverityatafine-grainedlevel. 3.MotivationandDefinition 3.1MotivationDescription Tocapturetheunderlyingstatesforeffectiveandinterpretableanomalyidentification,an intuitiveapproachistotreatasequenceoftimeseriesaspossiblepatternsandthenmodeltheir sequentialdependencies 26 27 .However,industrialtimeseriesareoftenaccompaniedbynoise, andtherearecomplexbusiness-relatedinter-seriesrelationships,whichareusefulfor characterizingthesystem sstates 30 ,i.e.spatialbusinessassociationinformation. Tothisend,graph-basedmethods 29 30 canbeemployedtomodelthestructural dependenciesbetweentimeseries.However,thesemethodsoftenfailtoprovideaseverity diagnosisofanomalies,whichisnecessarytoassistoperatorsintakingappropriateresponses. Therefore,inthiswork,weproposeanoveltemporalandspatialassociationstatematrixto describetherelationshipsbetweenmultivariatetimeseries,andwedesignathree-branchattention moduletocapturethetemporalevolutionpatternsofthesestatematrices.Finally,wereconstruct thesestatematricesandcalculatethereconstructionerrorbetweentheinputmatrixandthe reconstructedmatrixtodifferentiate,locate,anddiagnoseanomalies. Intuitively,intherealworld,theremaybemultipleanomaliesandthedurationofthe anomaliesmaybelongerthanonetimestep,andthemodelmaynotbeabletoreconstructthe statematricesthatdeviatefromthenormalworkingmodeofthesystemwell. Specifically,weproposeatemporalstatematrixtodepicttherelationshipbetweenthe system sworkingstateanditstemporalevolution.Webelievethatwhenasystemisoperating normally,thechangesinitsstateovertimeshouldalsoconformtocertainworkingpatterns.This transformsthemodelingofthetimeseriesitselfintomodelingthechangesinthesystem sstate overtime,whichcanbemoreeffectiveindistinguishinganomaliesandidentifyingthedurationof anomalies.Additionally,intherealworld,locatingthepositionwhereanomaliesoccurisof significantimportanceforrapidresponse.Therefore,tolocatethepositionofanomalies,wehave alsodesignedaspatialstatematrixtodepictthedependenciesbetweensensors,thereby identifyingthemostlikelylocationofanomalyoccurrence. Itisnoteworthythatinthespatialstatematrix,eachrowrepresentsasensor,sothemorerows thatareanomalous,themorelocationstheanomalyhasoccurred.Furthermore,previousworks 32 33 haveshownthattheinterrelationshipsbetweenthesystem ssensorshelpcharacterizethe localstatesofthesystem.Therefore,thispaperproposestodepictthesystem sstateevolution overtimefrombothtimeandspaceperspectives,enablingfine-graineddiagnosisandlocalization ofanomalies. 3.2ProblemStatement GivenasegmentoftheMTS 1, 2, , ,whichconsistsof features collectedin timesteps,asthetrainingset.Let 1, 2, , 1denotesthe featuresattimestep ,and representsthevalueofthe -thfeatureattimestep ; 1 , 2 , , 1 denotethevaluesofthe -thfeatureinatimewindowwithlength .The testsetisalsoanMTSwith features,whichiscollectedwithinatimerangedifferentfromthat ofthetrainingset.ThegoalofthispaperistodetectabnormalbehaviorsfromMTS,andtolocate anddiagnosetheseverityoftheabnormalresults,providingoneormoremostlikelypositionsof theabnormality,aswellastheabilitytoassesstheseverity(duration)oftheabnormalityatany granularityoftimescale. 4.Methodology 4.1OverallArchitecture Figure2.Theoverallarchitectureoftheproposedfine-grainedanomalydetectionmodel MAD-Transformer.Firstly,spatialstatematrices andtemporalstatematrices are constructedforMTS .Three-layerconvolutionneuralnetworkencodersareusedtoencode featuresfor, and respectively.Then,athree-branchattentionmechanism(i.e. MAD-Attention)isemployedtoseparatelylearntheassociationsamongsequences,time,and space,andtogeneratereconstructedtimeseriessignals andreconstructedmatrices and TM .Themodeltrainsthenetworkusingalignmentlossandreconstructionlossbasedonthe series-temporal-spatialassociations,predictstheanomalouslocations,andassessestheseverityof anomaliesthroughtheresidualvaluesofthereconstructedstatematrices. Figure2illustratesourproposalforamulti-branchTransformertouncovermoremeaningful associations.Bylearningthetemporalandspatialstatechanges,wemodelthenormaloperational patternsofthesystem,enablingmoreprecisedetectionofanomalousbehaviors.Technically,we introduceathree-branchattentionmechanism(MAD-Attention)toseparatelylearnthe series-temporal-spatialassociations.Alongwiththis,wedesignthreealignmentlossestoalign thesethreeassociationsinthefeaturespace,therebyobtainingmoreexpressivefeatures. TocapturethetemporalandspatialdependenciesamongMTS,thispaperfirstconstructsa temporalstatematrix bycalculatingthecorrelationsbetweenpairwisetimestepssuchas( 1 and 2)alongthetimedimension.Then,toextractthespatialdependencies,alongthefeature dimension,wealsobuildafeaturecorrelationmatrix bycalculatingthecorrelationsbetween pairwisefeaturessuchas( and ).Subsequently,the , andtheoriginaltimeseriesare fedintoathree-branchattentionstructure,MAD-Attention,totrainamodelthatmodelsthe normalpatternoftheMTSfromthreedimensions:time,feature,andspace.Finally,thetrained modelisusedtodetectabnormalbehaviorsfromthetestsetandprovideoneormorepossible locationsoftheanomalies,aswellasassesstheseverity(duration)oftheanomaliesinany granularityoftimescale. 4.2ModelingSpatio-TemporalDependencies Unlikeexistingmethodsthatonlymodeldependenciesbetweentimeseries,themulti-branch Transformermodelproposedinthispapercapturestwotypesofassociationrelationship informationfromtherawsequencesandtheproposedstatematrices:spatialassociationand temporalassociation. Thehistoricalworkingstatusofthesystemwillaffectthecurrentobservedvaluesofthe system.Forinstance,intheprocessofwatertreatment,ifthepreviousstatewasdrainage,thenthe currentreadingsofthewatertank spressuresensorwilldecrease.Conversely,ifthestatewas filling,thereadingswouldbeopposite.However,thefillingstatemustprecedethedrainagestate. Intuitively,inindustrialcontrolsystems,achangeinthevalueofonedevice(sensor)can causeachangeinthevaluesofotherrelateddevices.Inotherwords,therelationshipsamong sensors(devices)arecrucial.Forinstance,inawatertreatmentplant,ifthelevelsensorreadings increase,theflowratesensorreadingsmaydecrease(thevalidityofthisexampleneedstobe confirmed). Thespatialinfluencementionedabovecannaturallyberepresentedbyaspatialstatematrix, whichisprimarilycomposedoftheassociationsbetweenpairsofsensors.Meanwhile,the temporalassociationcanberepresentedbyatemporalstatematrix,whichdetermineshowthe system sworkingstateevolvesacrossdifferentrowsofthetemporalstatematrix. a)TemporalStateMatrix Tocharacterizetheoverallstatechangepatternofthesystemwithinagivenperiod(e.g.,an MTSsegmentoflength ),weconstructa temporalstatematrix basedontheinner productsofthetimeseriespairscorrespondingtoeachpairoftimestepswithinthistimesegment. Specifically,givenanMTSoflength , , 1, , ,where 1, 2, , denotestheMTScorrespondingtotimestep ,thecalculationformulaforthestaterelationship betweentimesteps and isasfollows: (1) where denotesthedotproduct, isthehyperparameterofthetemporalstatematrix.nisthe dimensionofthetimeseries(i.e.,thenumberofsensorsinthesystem),and referstothe temporaldynamicassociationmatrix. Asaresult,eachrowofthismatrixrepresentsthecorrelationrelationshipbetweenthe correspondingtimepointsequenceandallothertimepoints.However,whenananomalyoccursin thesystem,itdisruptsthiscorrelationrelationship,representedbyamatriximageandtimeseries waveform.Themorerowsinthematrixthatexhibitanomalies,thelongerthedurationofthe anomaly.Therefore,bymodelingthistemporalstatematrix,itisnotonlypossibletodetect anomaliesbutalsotocharacterizetheirdurationatanytimegranularity,whichisbeneficialfor laterfine-graineddiagnosisoftheseverityofanomalies. b)SpatialStateMatrix Intherealworld,asystemoftencompriseshundredsoreventhousandsofdevices,hence simplyprovidingalarminformationforanomaliesisinsufficient.Itisalsonecessarytoindicate thepossiblelocationoftheanomaly,enablingoperationspersonneltoquicklylocateand investigatethecause,therebyreducingthelossesassociatedwithextendedsystemdowntime. Intuitively,therelationshipsbetweendevices(sensors)withinthesystemshouldconformto certainpatternswhenthesystemisoperatingnormally.Therefore,tolocateanomalies,wehave characterizedtheassociationstatepatternsbetweensequencesinMTSandconstructedaspatial statematrix withdimension .Specifically,foragivenMTS , 1, , oflength ,theassociationrelationship betweenanytwotimeseries ( , 1 , , )and ( , 1 , , )canbedefinedastheirdotproduct: (2) where denotesthedotproduct, isthehyperparameterofthespatialstatematrix.Thisspatial statematrixcharacterizestheassociationrelationshipsbetweenanytwodifferenttimeseries withinthesystem,therebyenablingthecaptureofpotentialanomalies.Thisisbecauseonce certaintimeseriesexhibitanomalies,theyareboundtoviolatetheassociationrelationshipsthat holdundernormalconditions. 4.3MAD-Transformer DuetotheinabilityoftraditionalTransformerstoperformtimeseriesanomalydetection,we proposetheMAD-Transformer,designedtodetectanddiagnoseanomaliesinMTS,asshownin Figure2(modelstructurediagram).TheMAD-Transformerischaracterizedbyalternatingstacks ofmulti-branchattentionblocksandfeed-forwardlayers.Thisstackstructurefacilitatesthe learningoflatentcorrelationsfromdeep,multi-levelfeatures. GivenasegmentofMTS (where isthelengthofthetimeseriesand isthe dimensionofthetimeseries),wefirstcalculateitscorrespondingtemporalstatematrix and spatialstatematrix separatelyaccordingtoSection4.2.Assumingthemodelhas layers, theformulasforthe -thlayercanbeformalizedasfollows: _ ( _ , , 1 , , 1)(3) , , _ ( ) (4) where , ℎ , ℎ , 1,2, , denotestheoutputofthe -th layerwith ℎ channels.Theinput , , 0 ( , , )isinitializedto representtheembeddedoriginalsequence. denotestheintermediatehiddenstateatlayer . _ ( )isusedtocalculatetheassociativerelationshipsbetweendifferent embedding. MAD-Attention:Sincethesingle-branchself-attentionmechanism 34 cannotsimultaneously modelsequenceassociation,temporalassociation,andspatialassociation,weproposea time-spaceattentionwithathree-branchstructure.Withinthisstructure,seriesassociationisused tolearnsequence-leveldependenciesfromtheoriginalinput,allowingfortheadaptivediscovery ofthemosteffectivesequenceassociations.Fortemporalassociation,wefirstcomputeatemporal statematrixbasedontherelationshipsbetweenpairsoftimepoints,andthenextractthemost effectivetemporalassociationsfromthismatrix.Similarly,forspatialassociation,wecalculatea correspondingspatialstatematrixfromtheoriginalsequencebasedontherelationshipsbetween pairsofsensors(dotproduct),whichrepresentstheoriginalspatialassociations,andthen adaptivelyfindthemostdistinguishingspatialassociationsfromthismatrix.Pleasenotethatthese threetypesofassociationssimultaneouslymaintainthesequenceassociation,temporalassociation, andspatialassociationofthetimeseries,providingmoreinformationthanpoint-by-point representations. AsshowninFigure2,MAD-Attentionconsistsofthreebranches:theSeriesbranch,the Temporalbranch,andtheSpacebranch.TheSeriesbranchisresponsibleforlearningthe sequenceassociationswithinthetimeseries.TheTemporalbranchcapturestemporalassociation relationsfromthetemporalstatematrix.Similarly,theSpacebranchexplicitlylearnsthespatial correlationsbetweensensorsfromthespatialstatematrix.Thesethreebranchesare complementary,reflectingthetemporalandinter-sensorassociationswithinthetimeseries.We believethatthecombinationofthesethreeshallresultinmorediscriminativerepresentations,as violatinganyofthesedependencieswouldleadtoanomalies.Theoutputofthe -thlayerof MAD-AttentionisgivenbyEquation5: : , , 1 , 1 , 1 , , 1 , 1 , 1 , , 1 , 1 , 1 : Softmax ( ) : Softmax ( ) (5) : Softmax ( ) : where , , , , , ℎ , , , ℎ denotesquery,key,and valueoftheself-supervisedsequence,timebranch,andspacebranch,respectively. , , , , , , , , ℎ ℎ denotesparametermatrices ofQx,Kx,Vx,QTM,KTM,VTM,QSM,KSM,VSMatthek-thlayerrespectively. , , denotessequenceassociation,temporalassociationandspatialassociation respectively.TheSoftmaxfunctionnormalizestheattentionmapalongthelastdimension. Therefore,intheaforementionedattentionmap( , , ),eachrowconformstoa discretedistribution. , ℎ , ℎ denotetheintermediate representationofthe -thlayerafterMAD-Attention.WedenoteEquation5as _ ( ). 4.4LossMeasurement 4.4.1AssociationAlignmentLoss WeutilizethesymmetricKLdivergencetoalignpairwiseassociations,whichalsorepresents theinformationgainbetweenthesetwodistributions.Weaveragetheassociationdifferences acrossmultiplelayers,combiningtheassociationsofmulti-layerfeaturesintoamoreinformative measurementasfollows: , 1 ( ( ,: ,: ( ,: ,: ) 1, , (6) , 1 ( ( ) ) (7) , 1 ( ( ) ( )) (8) , , , 1 , 1 , 1 (9) InEquation6, ( )denotestheKLdivergencecomputedbetweentwodiscrete distributionscorrespondingtoeachrowfor and .Therefore, , 1 denotesthepoint-wiseassociationdifferencesbetweenthemulti-layersequenceassociation andthetemporalassociation.The -thelementoftheresultcorrespondstothe -thtimepointof theinputsequence .InEquations7and8, ( )denotestheassociationdifferencesbetween twodistributions,asthedimensionsofspatialassociationandsequenceassociationaswellas temporalassociationaredifferent. 1denotestheL1norm. 4.4.2ReconstructionLoss Asanunsupervisedtask,weemployreconstructionlosstooptimizethemodel.Wecalculate thereconstructionlossfortheoriginalsequence ,thetemporalmatrix ,andthespatialmatrix separately.Thesereconstructionlosseswillguidethevariousassociationstofindthemost informativemessage. 2 2 2 (10) wherex ,TM andSM denotesthereconstructionsofsequencex,temporalstatematrix and spatialstatematrix . . denotesFrobeniusnorm. Additionally,notethatsincethetemporalmatrixandthespatial(feature)matrixrespectively reflecttheassociationrelationshipsofthetimeseriesinthetemporaldimensionandthespatial (feature)dimension,oncethereisanabnormalsequenceatacertainmoment,itwillinevitably violateatleastoneoftheseassociations.Therefore,thepurposeofreconstructingbothhereisto visualizethedurationofanongoinganomaly,aswellastoidentifywhichfeatures(sensors) exhibitabnormalities,inordertodeterminethelocationoftheanomalyandvisualizeitsseverity. 4.4.3TotalLoss Theoveralllossfunctionconsistsoftwoparts:reconstructionloss andassociation alignmentloss , , .Thereconstructionlossguidesthethree associationsofsequence,temporalandspatialtofindthemostinformativeassociation. Meanwhile,tofurtheramplifythedifferencesbetweenanomalousandnormaltimepoints,wealso employanadditionaldifferencelosstoalignthesethreeassociations.Thisallowsthethree associationstoinfluenceandcomplementeachother,enablingthelearningofamore comprehensivepatternofnormaldata.Asaresult,thereconstructionofanomaliesbecomesmore challenging,makinganomaliesmoreeasilyrecognizable.AccordingtoEquation9andEquation 10,theoveralllossfunctionfortheinputsequence canbeformulatedas: , , (11) where isthereconstructionof , denotesFrobeniusnorm,λisthe hyperparameterusedtobalancethelossterm. 4.5ModelLearningStrategy Wepresentthepseudo-codeofMAD-AttentioninALGORITHM1. ALGORITHM1:MAD-AttentionMechanism(multi-headversion) Require:input: ℎ ;temporalmatrix: ℎ ;spacematrix: ℎ Layerparameters:linearprojectorforinputandmatrices: Embedding, Embedding, Embedding linearprojectorforoutput: Linear Linearoutput, Linear 1: , , , 1 , , ℎ 2: , , , 1 , , ℎ 3: , , ( ,dim 1) , , ℎ 4:for , , in( , , ): , , ℎ ℎ 5: (ℎ ℎ ) 6: ℎ ℎ 8: Linear ( ( 1, , ℎ, 1)) ℎ 7:for , , in( , , ): , , ℎ ℎ 8: (ℎ ℎ ) 9: ℎ ℎ 10: Linear ( ( 1, , ℎ, 1)) ℎ 11:for , , in( , , ): , , ℎ ℎ 12: (ℎ ℎ ) 13: ℎ ℎ 14: Linear 1, , ℎ, 1 ℎ 15:return , , 5.AnomalyDiagnosis Figure3:AnomalyDiagnosisProcess. and denotethespatialstatematrixandthe temporalstatematrix. , denotethereconstructedtimeseries,thereconstructedspatial statematrixandthereconstructedtemporalstatematrix. denotestheerrorvalueatthe -th rowand -thcolumnofthetemporalstateresidualmatrix.Similarly, denotestheerrorvalue atthe -throwand -thcolumnofthespatialstateresidualmatrix. and denotetheerrors atthe -throwofthetemporalstateresidualmatrixandthespatialstateresidualmatrix, respectively.Subsequently,eachrow serroriscomparedwiththecorrespondingthreshold,and rowswitherrorsgreaterthanthethresholdareidentifiedasabnormaltimestepsorabnormal devices. TheprocessofanomalydetectionanddiagnosisisshowninFigure3.Firstly,theoriginal timeseries,timematrix,andspatialmatrixareinputintoatrainedmodeltoobtaintheir reconstructions.Subsequently,thecorrespondingresidualmatricesarecalculatedbasedonthe reconstructionsandtheoriginalmatrices.Thesumofeachrowintheresidualmatrixyieldsthe errordeterminant.Finally,thiserrordeterminantiscomparedwithathresholdvalue,andany valuesgreaterthanthethresholdareconsideredanomalies. 5.1AnomalyDetection ToaccuratelydetectanomalieswithintheMTSdataofCPSsystems,wesimultaneously leveragethemeritsoftimeseriesrepresentationanddistinguishableassociationdifferences.We measurethediscrepancybetweensequencecorrelationandtemporalcorrelationateachtimepoint, andcalculatetheanomalyscorebasedonthenormalizeddifferencebetweensequenceand temporalcorrelations.Therefore,foragiventimeseries ,thefinalanomalyscoreis computedasfollows: ,: ,: 22 1, , ( , )(12) where representselement-wisemultiplication. denotesthepoint-by-pointanomaly scoreinsample .Inthefaceofabetterreconstruction,theanomalymayreducetheassociated differences,yetitstillyieldsahigheranomalyscore.Therefore,thisdesignallowsthe reconstructionerrorandtheassociateddifferencestoworkincollaboration,enhancingthe accuracyofdetection. 5.2AnomalyLocalization Themostlikelylocationsofanomaliesaredeterminedbycalculatingtheresidualmatrixof thespatialstatematrix.Giventhetemporalstatematrix andthereconstructionmatrix ,the residualmatrixbetweenthemiscalculatedas: 22 ( , ) (13) Theresidualsforeachrowof aresummedasthefinalerrorforthatrow.Rowswith errorsgreaterthanthethresholdareconsideredtopotentiallycorrespondtodevicesthatmayhave experiencedanomalies. 5.3SeverityAssessment Aspreviouslydiscussed,theseverityofananomalyisdiagnosedbyassessingthedurationof theanomaly;thelongertheduration,themoreseveretheanomalyisconsideredtobe.Similarto thelocalizationofanomalies,thisdiagnosisiscarriedoutbycomputingtheresidualmatrix betweenthetemporalstatematrix anditsreconstructionmatrix .Giventhetemporalstate matrix ,thecorrespondingresidualmatrixis: 22 ( , )(14) Subsequently,theresidualmatrix issummedrow-wisetoserveasthefinalerrorfor eachrow.Rowswitherrorsexceedingthethresholdaredeemedtocorrespondtotimepointsof anomalies.Thegreaterthenumberofanomaloustimepoints,themoreseveretheanomalyis consideredtobe. Itisworthnotingthatinpracticalapplications,thegranularityforassessingtheseverityof anomaliescanbeadaptivelychosenbasedonthesystem scharacteristics.Forinstance,eachrow ofthetemporalstatematrixcanrepresenttheintervalofonetimestepora10secondinterval. Additionally,althoughourmethodprovidesthreefunctions:anomalyidentification,localization, anddiagnosis,inreal-worldapplications,itispossibletoadaptivelyselectoneortwoofthese functionsbasedonbusinessrequirements.However,webelievethatcombiningthelocalizationof anomalieswiththediagnosisofthedurationofanomaliestoassesstheirseverityresultsinamore comprehensiveandmeaningfuljudgment.Intuitively,thelongerthedurationoftheanomalyand themoredevicesaffected,themoresevereitislikelytobe.Theprocessofanomalydiagnosisis illustratedinFigure3. 6.Experiments Inthissection,weconductedextensivecomparativeexperimentswith21benchmarkmodels across6categories,includinganomalydetection,anomalylocalization,andseverityassessment, basedon5publiclyavailabledatasetsforservicemonitoring,spaceandearthexploration,and watertreatmentapplications,aswellasaself-collectedsimulationdatasetforwatertreatment.The goalwastoverifywhethertheMAD-Transformeroutperformsbenchmarkmodelsin multi-variabletimeseriesanomalydetectiontasks,whetheritcanlocalizethemostlikelylocation ofanomalies,andwhetheritcanprovideeffectivefine-grainedjudgmentsofanomalyseverity. Finally,wevalidatedtheimpactofeachcomponentoftheproposedmodelonitsdetection performance. 6.1Datasets SWAT(SecureWaterTreatment 36
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 Accurate experimental ( p, ρ, T ) data of natural gas mixtures for the assessment of reference equations of state when dealing with hydrogen -enriched natural gas Roberto Hernández -Gómez1, Dirk Tuma2, Daniel Lozano -Martín1, César R. Chamorro1 1 Grupo de Termodinámica y Calibración (TERMOCAL), Dpto. Ingeniería Energética y Fluidomecánica, Escuela de Ingenierías Industriales, Universidad de Valladolid, Paseo del Cauce, 59, E -47011 Valladolid, Spain. 2 BAM Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -prüfung, D -12200 Berlin, Germany. Abstract The GERG -2008 equation of state is the approved ISO standard (ISO 20765 -2) for the calculation of thermophysical properties of natural gas mixtures . The composition of natural gas can vary considerably due to the diversity of origin. Further diversification was generated by adding hydrogen, biogas, or other non-conventional energy gases. In this work, high-precision experimental ( p, ρ, T ) data for two gravimetrically prepared synthetic natural gas mixtures are reported . One mixture resemble d a conventional natural gas of 11 components (11M) with a nominal mixture composition (amount -of-substance fraction) of 0.8845 for methane as the matrix compound with the other compounds being 0.005 for oxygen, 0.04 for nitro gen, 0.015 for carbon dioxide, 0.04 for ethane, 0.01 for propane, 0.002 each for n - and isobutane, and ultimately 0.0005 each for isopentane, n -pentane, and n -hexane. The other mixture was a 13 -component hydrogen -enriched natural gas with a low calorific value featuring a nominal composition of 0.7885 for methane, 0.03 for hydrogen, 0.005 for helium, 0.12 for nitrogen, 0.04 for carbon dioxide, 0.0075 for ethane, 0.003 for propane, 0.002 each for n - and isobutane, and 0.0005 each for neopentane, isopentane, n -pentane, and n-hexane. Density measurements were performed in an isothermal operational mode at temperatures between 260 and 350 K and at pressures up to 20 MPa by using a single -sinker densimeter with magnetic suspension coupling. The data we re compared with the corresponding densities calculated from both GERG - 2008 and AGA8 -DC92 equation s of state to test their performance on real mixtures . The average absolute 2 deviation from GERG -2008 (AGA8 -DC92) is 0.027 (0.078 ) for 11M and 0.095 (0.062 ) for the 13-component H 2-enriched mixture, respectively. T he corresponding maximum relative deviation from GERG -2008 (AGA8 -DC92) amounts to 0.095 (0.127 ) for 11M and 0.291 (0.193 ) for the H 2- enriched mixture. Keywords: hydrogen -enriched natural gas; gravimetric preparation; single -sinker densimeter; reference equations of state; GERG -2008; AGA8 -DC92 Corresponding author e -mail: cescha eii.uva.es. Tel.: 34 983423756. ORCID: Roberto Hernández -Gómez: 0000 -0003 -1830 -1410 Dirk Tuma: 0000 -0002 -5713 -9746 Daniel Lozano -Martín : 0000 -0002 -2286 -0111 César R. Chamorro: 0000 -0001 -6902 -3778 3 1. Introduction The increasing global energy demand with its impact on mankind is a growing imperative for the development of alternative energy sources which truly fulfil the condition of sustainability. Initiated by the first oil crisis in 1973 1 , hydrogen is promoted as a sustainable alternative energy carrier in the implementation of energy policies that do not depend on fossil resources, or, in short, on carbon. The last years have seen a vibrant and continuously growing activity on all fields related. The concept of decarbonisation literally means to replace carbon atoms wit h hydrogen atoms. The book entitled The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities and Challenges by Ball and Wietschel published in 2009 highlights hydrogen comprehensively from a technical, environmental , and socioeconomic perspective 2 . At present, the global economy still runs largely on fossil fuels. In a long -term perspective, fossil fuels must develop away from energy into the raw material for producing chemical products. Hydrogen, however, naturally occurs in a bonded form and thus has first to be released by using energy, ideally from renewable sources 3 7 . An illustrative example is the so -called power -to-gas technique , that is the use of surplus electrical power to produce a gas fuel, where hydrogen is made by electrolysis 8 10 . One hydrogen -related approach that has been put forward for making a transition towards a carbon -free economy is adding hydrogen into existing natural gas transport and distribution systems 11 15 . Capocelli and De Falco have put it in an introductory book chapter Enriched methane is a ready solution for the transition towards the hydrogen economy 16 ; in other words, enriched methane is a pathway to introduce hydrogen in our established and consolidated energy infrastructure. Apart from plain economic figures, various technical aspects over the entire chain, such as safety, availability, storage, metering, equipment and operational parameters, efficiency, as well as material characteristics , have to be successfully addressed towards a full affirmation . These research activities manifested in a notable number of studies . Some recently published papers which particularly address the aforementioned issues for enriched methane are: experiments of turbulent explosions, focusing on the influence on mixture reactivity by Li et al. 17 and explosion studies of methane hydrogen mixtures by Lowesmith et al. 18 on safety; a study on transition pathways to future energy infrastructure by Maroufmashat and Fowler on availability 19 ; development of measuring standards to support fiscal metering by van der Veen et al. on analysis and metering 20 ; a comprehensive review on combustion 4 engines for H 2-enriched natural gas by Mehra et al. 21 , a study of low -calorific value coal gas combustion by Karyeyen and İlbaş 22,23 , and the studies investigating the effects of composition on engine performance, combustion , and emission by Hora and Agarwal 24 and Cellek and Pınarbaşı 25 , respectively , deal with equipment and operation. Due to the low calorific value of hydrogen on a volumetric basis, a virtual hydrogen -spiked energy gas would require a gas with about 80 of hydrogen to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide by 50 11 . The approved ISO standard (ISO 20765 -2) for the calculation of thermophysical properties of established natural gas -type mixtures
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	A Self -Updating K -Contingency List for Smart Grid System Sohini Roy, Arunabha Sen School of Computing, Informatics and Decision System Engineering Arizona State University Tempe -85281, Arizona, USA Email: sohini.roy, asen asu.edu Abstract A reliable decision making by the operator in a smart grid is contingent upon correct analysis of intra -and- interdependencies between its entities and also on accurate identification of the most critical entities at a given point of time. A measurement based self -updating contingency list can provide real-time information to the operator about current system condition which can help the operator to take the required action. In this paper, the und erlying intra -and-interdependencies between entities for a given power -communication network is captured using a dependency model called Modified Implicative Interdependency Model (MIIM) 1 . Given an integer K, the event -driven self -updating contingency list problem gives the list of K-most critical entities, failure of which maximizes the network damage at the current time. Owing to the problem being NP complete, a fast heuristic method to generate a real -time contingency list using system measurements is provided here . The validation of the work is done by comparing the contingency list obtained for different K values using the MIIM model on a smart grid of IEEE 14 -Bus system wit h that obtained by simulating the smart grid using a co -simulation system formed by MATPOWER and Java Network Simulator (JNS). The results also indicate that the network damage predicted by both the ILP based solution 2 and the proposed heuristic solutio n using MIIM are more realistic compared to that obtained using another dependency model called Implicative Interdependency Model (IIM) 3 . Keywords Smart Grid, MIIM model, contingency list, Inter Dependency Relations (IDRs), heuristic solution . I. INTRODUCT ION The smart grid system can be viewed as a two -layered network where one layer is composed of the power entities and the other layer is formed with communication entities. Yet, both the layers are coupled together by complex interdependencies in order to function as a single system. Moreover, the entities of each layer of the network also exhibits intra -dependencies between them. Such intra as well as interdependencies are critical in a smart grid system as a failure of one or more entities in each layer can lead to a cascading failure of multiple entities in the whole system. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the dependencies between different entities of the smart grid and identify the most critical entities, damage of which can result in the fail ure of maximum number of entities in the smart grid system. Such entities can be identified as the most vulnerable entities upon which the operability of the smart grid system is contingent and a list of such entities in the system is termed as the conting ency list 4 . Appropriate protection of the entities in the contingency list can save the smart grid from a catastrophe. However, in order to identify the contingency list, (i) the design of each layer of network should be clear to the researchers, and (ii) there should be an appropriate model that can represent the complex intra - and-interdependencies between the entities in the smart grid. In 2 , a simplistic and easy Boolean Logic based dependency model, termed as the Implicative Interdependency Model (IIM) is proposed which very accurately captures the complex interdependencies between the entities in a critical infrastructure. Yet, IIM also has drawbacks like (i) ignoring the effects of failure of entities in the Information and Communication Technol ogy (ICT) layer, (ii) lack of ICT network design information and (iii) binary nature; that means an entity can either fail or operate only and it does not take into account any reduced level of operation for the entities in the system. In 8 , a rough idea about the ICT network for smart grid is provided but it also lacks the detailed description of the ICT design. A Modified Implicative Interdependency Model (MIIM) proposed in 1 takes into account all such drawbacks and provides a clear picture of the sm art grid network design by taking inputs from a utility in the U.S. Southwest. It also considers different operational levels of the entities and model the complex dependencies using multi -valued Boolean Logic based equations called Interdependency Relatio ns (IDRs). The contingency list can be obtained for a smart grid system, just by solving these IDRs. Now, according to 1 , the IDRs are updated if any failure or change of operational level occurs to the entities. Therefore, the contingency list for a sma rt grid in a steady state will also differ from the list when some failure takes place in the system and the IDRs are changed. Thus, an event -driven self -updating contingency list is required to offer resilience to the grid. Again, since the contingency li st keeps on changing with any event of failure in the system, it is difficult to harden all the entities in updated the contingency list every time and the operator might have some budget constraints for hardening the entities in the list. Such budget cons traint can either be monetary or availability of resources. If the current budget of hardening is K - entities for the operator, then it is essential to identify the K -most vulnerable entities in the network at the current time. This K can be any integer val ue, less than the total number of entities in the smart grid. In this paper, a novel method to generate a self - updating K -contingency list at for a smart grid is proposed. It is already proved in 2 that the problem of identifying the K - contingency list i s NP -complete. Therefore, an Integer Linear Programming (ILP) based solution for the problem is provided in this paper using the MIIM IDRs. Finally, a validation of the results obtained from the proposed method is done by co - simulating the two layers
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Can occupant behaviors a ect urban energy planning? Distributed stochastic optimization for energy communities Julien Leprincea,b, , Amos Schledornb, Daniela Guerickec, Dominik Franjo Dominkovicb, Henrik Madsenb, Wim Zeilera aTechnical University of Eindhoven, 5 Groene Loper, Eindhoven 5600 MB, The Netherlands bTechnical University of Denmark, Building 303B Matematiktorvet, Lyngby 2800, Denmark cUniversity of Twente, Drienerlolaan 5, 7522 NB Enschede, The Netherlands Abstract To meet carbon emission reduction goals in line with the Paris agreement, planning resilient and sustainable energy systems has never been more important. In the building sector, particularly, strategic urban energy planning engenders large optimization prob- lems across multiple spatiotemporal scales leading to necessary system scope simpliﬁcations. This has resulted in disconnected system scales, namely, building occupants (bottom layer) and smart-city energy networks (top layer). This paper intends on bridg- ing these disjointed scales to secure both resilient and more energy-e cient urban planning thanks to a holistic approach. The intent is to assess the aggregated impact of user behavior stochasticities on optimal urban energy planning. To this end, a stochastic energy community sizing and operation problem is designed, encompassing multi-level utilities founded on energy hub concepts for improved energy and carbon emission e ciencies. To secure the scalability of our approach, an organic spatial problem dis- tribution suitable for ﬁeld deployment is put forth, validated by a proof of concept. Uncertainty factors a ecting urban energy planning are particularly examined through a local sensitivity analysis, namely, economic, climate, and occupant-behavior uncer- tainties. Founded on historical measurements a typical Dutch energy community composed of 41 residential buildings is designed. Results disclose a fast-converging distributed stochastic problem, where boilers are showcased as the preferred heating utility, and distributed renewable energy and storage systems were identiﬁed as unproﬁtable for the community. Occupant behavior was partic- ularly exposed as the leading uncertainty factor impacting energy community planning. This demonstrates the relevance and value of our approach in connecting occupants to cities for improved, and more resilient, urban energy planning strategies. Keywords: Energy communities, District energy management, Optimal energy planning, Stochastic optimization, Occupant behavior, Demand side management Nomenclature Subscripts b building BAT battery BOL boiler ch charge COM community dch discharge EL electrolyzer FC fuel cell gas gas Corresponding author Email addresses: j.j.leprince tue.nl (Julien Leprince ), amosc dtu.dk (Amos Schledorn), d.guericke utwente.nl (Daniela Guericke), dodo dtu.dk (Dominik Franjo Dominkovic), hmad dtu.dk (Henrik Madsen), w.zeiler tue.nl (Wim Zeiler)HP heat pump HV high-voltage HYD hydrogen storage LV low-voltage lvl levelized costs MV medium-voltage nom nominal PV photovoltaic panel SP space heating STC solar thermal collector T temperature TES thermal energy storage U unit w window Preprint submitted to Applied Energy March 7, 2023arXiv:2303.03006v1 eess.SY 6 Mar 2023 Superscripts clim climate conditions d decision variable eco economic circumstances inv investment occ occupant behavior opr operation slk slack T vector transpose tot total amb ambient base baseline dist distribution e envelope h heater i inside m medium s sensor sol solar Symbols constant parameter - E electric power W Q thermal heat power W E electric energy vector kWh p price or cost vector e kWh Q thermal heat energy vector kWh s slack variable vector T temperature vector K existence (boolean variable) - e ciency - power coe cient 1 h random variable B building set - C community system set - set of scenarios! scenario index scenario realization probability self discharge rate - lifetime years C capacity J or thermal capacity W K E electric energy kWh O objective term e p price or cost e kWh Q thermal heat energy kWh R thermal resistance K W r interest rate - s slack variable T temperature K ts time step hour U thermal W K or W m2K V volume L H time horizon hour 1. Introduction Shifting our energy systems to resilient, and sustainable pro- cesses has never been more important than today. To tackle the global climate crisis and meet net-zero targets set by the Eu- ropean Green Deal 1 , in line with the Paris agreement 2 , countries around the world urgently need to decarbonize their economies by 2050. This requires them to simultaneously re- duce their current energy demand while signiﬁcantly increasing the penetration of renewable energy sources in decentralized energy systems 3 . Recent statistics reveal the building sector as the largest global energy-related CO 2emission contributor 4 , consequently placing it as the primary policy target of mul- tiple regions of the globe 5, 6, 7, 8 . A reliable integration of decentralized energy generation systems into the grid, such as photovoltaics, wind energy converters, geothermal heat pumps, or biomass-driven combined heat and power 3 , is, however, challenging due to the variability of weather-dependent sources 9 . Couplings to energy storage utilities with robust and ﬂex- ible control strategies are subsequently required to ensure en- ergy demand and supply meet. To increase the reliability of re- newable and sustainable energy systems, smart grid technolo- gies and demand-side management approaches have been ex- ploited over the last decades to proﬁt from available energies more e ciently. Thereby, peaks in electricity demand can be shifted to periods where energy from intermittent renewable sources is available 10 . 2 The concept of energy hubs and communities emerged from these ideas, to create autonomous areas optimally supplied with multiple energy sources. Energy communities are deﬁned by the European Commission as a legal entity which is e ectively controlled by local shareholders or members, generally value rather than proﬁt-driven, involved in distributed generation and in performing activities of a distribution system operator, sup- plier or aggregator at a local level 11 . They form a com- bination of distribution, conversion, and storage technologies controlled to supply communal consumers of energy. Such con- sumers represent individual households or apartments but also large building complexes or district facilities. Typical energy communities extend over the urban energy system as districts. They integrate renewables such as photovoltaics, wind turbines, solar thermal collectors, or hybrid collectors with buildings and are connected to local and regional scale
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	Leveraging inter- rm in uence in the di usion of energy e ciency technologies: An agent-based model Yingying Shia,c,e, Yongchao Zenga,e, , Jean Engoa,b, Botang Hana,c, Yang Lid,e, Ralph T. Muehleisene aSchool of Management and Economics, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China bCenter for Energy and Environmental Policy Research, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China cSustainable Development Research Institute for Economy and Society of Beijing, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China dSchool of Electrical Engineering, Northeast Electric Power University, Jilin 132012, China eEnergy Systems Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, IL 60439, USA Abstract Energy e ciency technologies (EETs) are crucial for saving energy and reducing carbon dioxide emissions. However, the di usion of EETs in small and medium-sized enterprises is rather slow. Literature shows the interactions between innovation adopters and potential adopters have signif- icant impacts on innovation di usion. Enterprises lack the motivation to share information, and EETs usually lack observability, which suppress the inter- rm in uence. Therefore, an information platform, together with proper policies encouraging or forcing enterprises to disclose EET-related information, should help harness inter- rm in uence to accelerate EETs di usion. To explore whether and how such an information platform a ects EETs di usion in small and medium-sized enterprises, this study builds an agent-based model to mimic EET di usion processes. Based on a series of controlled numerical experiments, some counter-intuitive phenomena are discovered and explained. The results show that the information platform is a double-edged sword that notably accelerates EETs di usion by approximately 47 but may also boost negative information to dif- fuse even faster and delay massive adoption of EETs. Increasing network density and the intensity of inter- rm in uence are e ective to speed EET di usion, but their impacts diminish drastically after reaching some critical values (0.05 and 0.15 respectively) and eventually harm the stability of the system. Hence, the ndings implicate that EET suppliers should carefully launch their promis- ing but immature products; policies that can reduce the perceived risk by enterprises and the e ort to maintain an informative rather than judgmental information platform can prominently mitigate the negative side e ects brought by high uidity of information. Keywords: Energy e ciency technology, Small and medium-sized enterprises, Technology di usion, Technology adoption, Agent-based modeling 1. Introduction Under the stress of energy security and threat of climate change, it has become necessary to transform the world economy into a low-carbon economy. Countries to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) pledged to prevent climate change and limit global warming to well below 2C by 2035, which indicated there still would be 13.7 billion Corresponding author at: School of Management and Economics, Beijing Institute of Technology, 5 South Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, China Email address: zengyc bit.edu.cn (Yongchao Zeng) Preprint submitted to Elsevier April 27, 2020arXiv:2004.11536v1 physics.soc-ph 24 Apr 2020 tons of carbon dioxide (CO 2) worldwide, about 60 above the level needed to remain the goal 1 . To cut down CO 2emissions, improving energy e ciency is essential 2 . International Energy Agency (IEA) predicts that about half of the accumulative emissions mitigation for the 2 C target can be achieved via the improvement of energy e ciency 3 . Energy e ciency technologies (EETs) have been admitted as promising means to mitigate energy consumption and related CO 2emissions. Unfortunately, the di usion of EETs is still unsatisfactory, especially among small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), despite the fact that they are cost-e ective 4 . The main reason is that SMEs usually allocate energy-e ciency projects with low priority and devote inadequate resources to energy management, thus manifest weak willingness to adopt EETs 5 . Considering that SMEs are quite numerous with extensive economic activities and represent the backbone of regional competitiveness 6 , e ectively steering or accelerating EET adoption in SMEs is critical from the perspectives of both competitiveness and global emission-reduction targets. Existing literature on EET adoption shows great interest in the identi cation and categorization of the barriers that hinder the adoption of EETs in enterprises. According to Cagno et al. 7 , such barriers can be classi ed into mainly seven categories (for more details see 8 ), among which the information related issues are a critical type of barriers frequently mentioned in literature e.g., 9, 6, 10 . A recent paper summarizes that the information barriers include the cost of obtaining EET-related information 11 , lack of information about energy consumption patterns 12 , lack of information about EET opportunities 13 , poor information for energy e ciency decisions 13 , and information issues on energy contracts 14 . Although these studies provide rich empirical knowledge for identifying the factors in uencing enterprises decision on EET adoption from microscopic perspective, they are basically static without considering how enterprises change their decisions under di erent conditions. Another branch of research is from the macroscopic perspective and focuses on the aggregate patterns emerging from individual enterprises adoption behaviors. A well-known model describing these aggregate patterns of technology adoption is the Bass di usion model 15 . The Bass di usion model has been widely applied to the prediction and evaluation of innovation di usion e.g., 16, 17, 18 . The original Bass di usion model is a variant of epidemic models, which mimic the infection processes in populations 15 . The Bass di usion model is expressed in a di erential equation and treats a large group of potential technology adopters as a dynamic system. Instead of following the currently prevalent research paradigm of EET adoption, the Bass di usion model only distinguishes two types of factors that dominate the evolution of a di usion system. The two dominant factors are external in uence (e.g., advertisement and mass media) and internal in uence (e.g., learning, imitation and social pressure) imposed on potential technology innovation adopters 15, 19, 20 . As to enterprises, internal in uence, which can be interpreted as the inter- rm in
__label__energy	No COVID-19 Climate Silver Lining in the US Power Sector Max Luke1, Priyanshi Somani2, Turner Cotterman3, Dhruv Suri4, Stephen J. Lee5 1NERA Economic Consulting, Boston, MA, USA, max.luke nera.com 2Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal, Karnataka, India 3Department of Engineering and Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA 4Department of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal, Karnataka, India 5Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA, leesj mit.edu Abstract Recent studies conclude that the global coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic decreased power sector CO 2emissions globally and in the United States. In this paper, we analyze the statistical signiﬁcance of CO 2emissions reductions in the U.S. power sector from March through December 2020. We use Gaussian process (GP) regression to assess whether CO 2emissions reductions would have occurred with reasonable probability in the absence of COVID-19 considering uncertainty due to factors unrelated to the pandemic and adjusting for weather, seasonality, and recent emissions trends. We ﬁnd that monthly CO 2emissions reductions are only statistically signiﬁcant in April and May 2020 considering hypothesis tests at 5 signiﬁcance levels. Separately, we consider the potential impact of COVID- 19 on coal-ﬁred power plant retirements through 2022. We ﬁnd that only a small percentage of U.S. coal power plants are at risk of retirement due to a possible COVID-19-related sustained reduction in electricity demand and prices. We observe and anticipate a return to pre-COVID-19 CO 2emissions in the U.S. power sector. Keywords: COVID-19, electric power sector, decarbonization, climate change, United States, counterfactual analysis, Gaussian processes, machine learning, statistical signiﬁcance, economic modeling, coal, capacity markets, price duration curve Introduction Despite its disruptive impacts on economic and so- cial activities, the global coronavirus (COVID-19) pan- demic could have a climate-related silver lining: a sus- tained reduction in carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions 1, 2, 3, 4 . Several studies attribute COVID-19-related decreases in energy demand to decreases in CO 2emis- sions 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 . Other studies report the im- pacts of COVID-19 on factors that a ect power sector CO 2emissions, such as electricity demand 11, 12, 13 and changes to the electricity supply mix 14, 15 . We focus on the impacts of COVID-19 on power sec- tor CO 2emissions in the contiguous United States. The power sector in the contiguous U.S. accounts for 33 of total U.S. CO 2emissions 16 . The power sector is the focus of U.S. decarbonization e orts: since Jan- uary 1, 2018, nine U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico enacted legislation that requires reduc- tions in power sector CO 2emissions of 90 or greater in those jurisdictions by 2050 or earlier; while 23 elec- tric utilities pledged to reduce their CO 2emissions by80-100 by 2050 or earlier 17 . Altogether, those state legislative actions and utility pledges amount to an intended reduction in power sector CO 2emissions of more than 50 by mid-century. We estimate the statistical signiﬁcance of U.S. power sector CO 2emissions reductions from March through December 2020 while accounting for typical variabil- ity in emissions and adjusting for weather, seasonality, and recent emissions trends. Additionally, we estimate the expected impact of COVID-19 on the retirement of coal-ﬁred power plants through 2022. The paper is structured as follows. In Section 2, we employ a simple probabilistic model that accounts for weather and seasonality and captures historical variability in factors unrelated to COVID-19, to estimate the impact of COVID-19 on power sector CO 2emissions ( C) in the United States. We use the model to evaluate COVID-19-related CO 2emissions re- ductions and the statistical signiﬁcance of such reduc- tions relative to typical variance in emissions. In Section 3, we use the probabilistic model to de- termine the relative impacts of changes in electricity Preprint May 28, 2021arXiv:2008.06660v2 econ.GN 28 May 2021 generation ( E) and carbon intensity of electricity supply (C E) on CO 2emissions, and the relative impacts on C of changes in the electricity supplies of the three prin- cipal power generation fossil fuel sources in the U.S.: coal, natural gas, and oil. In Section 4, we employ economic modeling to eval- uate the expected impact of COVID-19 on U.S. coal plant retirements. We analyze the expected proﬁtability through 2022 of the 845 coal-ﬁred power plant units op- erating in U.S. wholesale electricity and capacity mar- kets. Those 845 coal units represent 74 of coal units, 67 of coal capacity, and 42 of power sector CO 2 emissions in the contiguous U.S. 18 . To estimate the expected proﬁtability of coal-ﬁred power plant units, we use hourly historical electricity market price data, monthly electricity market price forecasts, annual and bi-annual capacity market price data, and data related to the locations, operating capacities, and costs of coal- ﬁred generation units. Are COVID-19-Related Reductions in Power Sector CO 2Emissions Statistically Signiﬁcant? Data Our analysis of U.S. power sector CO 2emissions re- quires three types of data: net generation by fuel, emis- sions factors by fuel, and heating and cooling degree days. We obtain net generation by fuel from the En- ergy Information Administration (EIA) Form EIA-923 19 , which reports monthly generation and fuel con- sumption for every power plant. We obtain Form EIA- 923 data for the period between January 2016 and De- cember 2020. Monthly plant-level emissions are com- puted by multiplying fuel consumption for each plant by fuel code-speciﬁc emissions factors published by the EIA and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 20, 21, 22 . Total CO 2emissions for the contigu- ous U.S. are evaluated by aggregating plant-level emis- sions. We obtain population-weighted heating degree day (HDD) and cooling degree day (CDD) data from the EIA 23 . Methods We employ a Gaussian process (GP) regression model to forecast CO 2emissions in the contiguous United States. GP regression models are a class of Bayesian nonparametric models. They assume that ev- ery ﬁnite collection of random variables has a multivari- ate normal distribution. GP
__label__energy	1 Sharing Energy Storage Between Transmission and Distribution Ryan T. Elliott, Ricardo Fern andez-Blanco, Kelly Kozdras, Josh Kaplan, Brian Lockyear, Jason Zyskowski, and Daniel S. Kirschen Abstract This paper addresses the problem of how best to co- ordinate, or stack, energy storage services in systems that lack centralized markets. Speciﬁcally, its focus is on how to coordinate transmission-level congestion relief with local, distribution-level objectives. We describe and demonstrate a uniﬁed communication and optimization framework for performing this coordination. The congestion relief problem formulation employs a weighted 1-norm objective. This approach determines a set of corrective actions, i.e., energy storage injections and conventional generation adjustments, that minimize the required deviations from a planned schedule. To exercise this coordination framework, we present two case studies. The ﬁrst is based on a 3-bus test system, and the second on a realistic representation of the Paciﬁc Northwest region of the United States. The results indicate that the scheduling methodology provides congestion relief, cost savings, and improved renewable energy integration. The large- scale case study informed the design of a live demonstration carried out in partnership with the University of Washington, Doosan GridTech, Snohomish County PUD, and the Bonneville Power Administration. The goal of the demonstration was to test the feasibility of the scheduling framework in a production environment with real-world energy storage assets. The demon- stration results were consistent with computational simulations. Index Terms Distribution system operator, energy storage sys- tem, mixed-integer linear programming, state of charge, transmis- sion congestion, transmission system operator, unit commitment. I. I NTRODUCTION UTILITY-SCALE energy storage has the potential to provide non-wire solutions to longstanding power grid problems. For example, distribution system operators (DSOs) could use energy storage to help reduce energy imbalance expenses or to serve their load more economically through energy arbitrage. Likewise, transmission system operators (TSOs) could use energy storage to mitigate congestion or provide frequency regulation. While the prospect of employing energy storage to tackle these challenges has drawn immense interest, the question of how best to coordinate, or stack, services remains open. A systematic approach to service coordination would not only help maximize resource utilization, but also bolster the ﬁnancial viability of energy storage projects. In this work, we describe and demonstrate a uniﬁed commu- nication and optimization framework for scheduling multiple R. T. Elliott, K. Kozdras, and D. S. Kirschen are with the University of Washington Department of Electrical Engineering in Seattle, WA 98195 USA (e-mail: ryanelliott ieee.org). R. Fern andez-Blanco is with the Department of Applied Mathemat- ics at the University of Malaga, Malaga 29076 Spain (e-mail: ri- cardo.fcarramolino uma.es). J. Kaplan and B. Lockyear are with Doosan GridTech in Seattle, WA. J. Zyskowski is with Snohomish County PUD in Everett, WA.simultaneous storage services between a TSO and one or more DSOs. To address this problem, we propose a multistage approach based on mixed-integer linear programming. To demonstrate the viability of the framework, it was implemented and used to control a utility-scale battery energy storage system (ESS) in Everett, WA. This battery is owned and operated by Snohomish County PUD (SnoPUD), and offers services to the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA). The scheduling framework presented here reﬂects the op- erating environment of the Paciﬁc Northwest region of the United States; however, it is also suitable for systems that lack centralized markets or that rely heavily upon bilateral contracts. This is the case, for example, in large parts of Europe 1 . Furthermore, the ideas developed in this paper may inspire new approaches to energy storage scheduling in systems that do have centralized markets. A. Literature review The concept of providing multiple simultaneous services with storage resources has generated active discussion throughout academia, industry, and government. The business case for multiple service provision in wholesale and retail markets is assessed by Teng and Strbac in 2 . Related economic analyses can be found in 3 5 . In contrast to 2 , which focuses on the aggregation of distributed storage systems, we concentrate on independently scheduled utility-scale systems. The problem of scheduling multiple services is addressed in 6 9 . For previous work on sharing storage resources among multiple parties, see 10 13 . In 6 , M egel et al . employ a model predictive control approach for co-optimizing simultaneous provision of local and system-wide services. The algorithm proposed therein determines the optimal power and energy capacity to allocate for each service as a function of time. Alternatively, we take a decentralized approach that permits the resource to determine the capacity required for local service provision. In regard to economics, 6 shows that stacking services can improve the ﬁnancial prospects of storage resources. Providing transmission-level congestion relief with energy storage is explored in 14 17 . The related problem of employing energy storage in congestion-constrained distribution networks is considered in 18 . The multi-objective formulation developed by Khani et al . in 17 seeks to maximize ESS revenue generated via arbitrage and the ESS contribution to congestion relief. Balancing the two objectives is achieved using an adaptive penalty mechanism. This mechanism has a similar mathematical structure to the weighted 1-norm employed in the formulation we present in Section III.arXiv:1901.02977v1 math.OC 10 Jan 2019 2 Regulatory agencies and independent system operators have taken steps to facilitate the integration of storage resources into markets for electricity and ancillary services. In a notice of proposed rulemaking 19 , FERC states that permitting storage resources to manage their own state of charge would allow these resources to optimize their operations to provide all of the services that they are technically capable of providing. We have adopted this perspective in the service coordination framework developed in this paper. In line with FERC s guidance, CAISO has held workshops on the governance of storage resources for multiple-use applications 20 . B. Paper organization The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec- tion II describes the method behind the linked communication and optimization procedures. It also outlines the reports that facilitate communication between parties. The formulation of the
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Waste Heat and Habitability: Constraints from Technological Energy Consumption Amedeo Balbi,1 Manasvi Lingam,2,3 1Dipartimento di Fisica, Universit a di Roma Tor Vergata, Roma, I-00133, Italy 2Department of Aerospace, Physics and Space Sciences, Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, FL 32901, USA 3Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, FL 32901, USA To whom correspondence should be addressed; E-mail: amedeo.balbi roma2.infn.it January 27, 2025 Abstract: Waste heat production represents an inevitable con- sequence of energy conversion as per the laws of thermodynamics. Based on this fact, by using simple theoretical models, we analyze constraints on the habitability of Earth-like terrestrial planets host- ing putative technological species and technospheres characterized by persistent exponential growth of energy consumption and waste heat generation. In particular, we quantify the deleterious effects of rising surface temperature on biospheric processes and the eventual 1arXiv:2409.06737v2 astro-ph.EP 24 Jan 2025 2 1 INTRODUCTION loss of liquid water. Irrespective of whether these sources of energy are ultimately stellar or planetary (e.g., nuclear, fossil fuels) in na- ture, we demonstrate that the loss of habitable conditions on such terrestrial planets may be expected to occur on timescales of 1000 years, as measured from the start of the exponential phase, provided that the annual growth rate of energy consumption is of order 1 . We conclude with a discussion of the types of evolutionary trajec- tories that might be feasible for industrialized technological species, and we sketch the ensuing implications for technosignature searches. Keywords: astrobiology Earth (planet) habitable planets habitable zone planetary climates technosignatures 1 Introduction It is now firmly established that the upsurge in atmospheric CO 2concentration caused by human technological activities has been elevating Earth s average sur- face temperature e.g., Archer, 2016, Hartmann, 2016, Dessler, 2021, Magnan et al., 2021, Abbass et al., 2022, Romm, 2022, Tziperman, 2022 . Neverthe- less, it is worth appreciating that ongoing anthropogenic warming is not exclu- sively a consequence of the intensified greenhouse effect stemming from fossil fuel utilization (though the latter phenomenon is unequivocally proven to be the chief driver). Instead, as elucidated in a number of analyses and overviews e.g., Chaisson, 2008, Flanner, 2009, Kleidon, 2012, Ming et al., 2014, Lu et al., 2017, Kleidon et al., 2023 , this facet of anthropogenic warming embodies a broader outcome of energy production and conversion that underpins modern (viz., globalized and industrialized) human societies. The pioneering 1969 pub- lication by the Soviet scientist Mikhail I. Budyko explicitly underscored this theme Budyko, 1969, pg. 618 : 3 All the energy used by man is transformed into heat, the main portion of this energy being an additional source of heat as compared to the present radiation gain. Simple calculations show Budyko, 1961 that with the present rate of growth of using energy the heat produced by man in less than two hundred years will be comparable with the energy coming from the sun. This feature arises from the fundamental fact that energy transduction in- evitably generates waste heat e.g., Budyko, 1969, Summers, 1971, Smil, 2008 1. Although the current contribution of this factor to global warming on Earth is negligible compared to the impact of carbon emissions Ming et al., 2014, Kleidon et al., 2023 ,2it is expected to amplify quite substantially in the next century in the event that the current growth rate of global energy consumption persists Lu et al., 2017 . The consequent rise in global temperature (just from this process) derived from assorted climate models may reach up to 1 K in this duration Flanner, 2009, Nickolaenko, 2009, Steiglechner et al., 2019 . Cruder estimates, when extrapolated over longer intervals, project a tem- perature increase of 10 K over a period of 350 years, with the assumption of energy trends similar to those of today Chaisson, 2008 . Likewise, a cognate analysis by Mullan and Haqq-Misra 2019 (see also von Hoerner 1975, Dutil and Dumas 2009) concluded that direct heating engendered by progressively higher energy consumption consistent with current rates could dramatically impede human habitability on timescales of merely hundreds of years in the future. It is crucial to realize that this contribution to global warming would persist even 1Interestingly, around the same time as Budyko s paper, Larry Niven s classic science fiction novel Ringworld (1970) also acknowledged the importance of waste heat as an evolutionary factor for technological species Niven, 1970 . 2In localized regions endowed with high industrialization (e.g., large and dense cities), however, it is already a notable contributor to warming Ichinose et al., 1999, Block et al., 2004, Ohashi et al., 2007, Allen et al., 2011, Zhang et al., 2013, Bohnenstengel et al., 2014, Salamanca et al., 2014, Stewart and Kennedy, 2017, Sun et al., 2018, Raj et al., 2020, Moln ar et al., 2020 , and this effect is anticipated to increase in the future. 4 1 INTRODUCTION in the scenario of achieving a complete transition to zero CO 2-emissions energy production. While this effect is of profound importance for the long-term future and fate of human civilization, it also has broader significance in the general context of planetary evolution and the potential for harboring technologically capable life in the universe this latter domain is closely linked with the detection of technosignatures, a burgeoning area of astrobiology Cirkovi c, 2012, Lingam and Loeb, 2021, Socas-Navarro et al., 2021 , with roots traceable to the 1960s Sagan, 1963, Drake, 1965, Shklovskii and Sagan, 1966, Tarter, 2001 . To be specific, we are free to inquire whether energetic growth, often innately presumed to be associated with technological activity Kardashev, 1985 , imposes a universal fundamental limit on the habitability of a planetary environment, arising simply from thermodynamic considerations, as indicated in von Hoerner 1975 . The notion that technological advancement is correlated with the amount of energy consumed was initially articulated vis- a-vis extraterrestrial life by Kar- dashev 1964 ; early studies implicitly adopted the premise that technological species would pursue and evince growth of their (energetic) activities Dyson, 1960, Shklovskii and Sagan, 1966,
__label__energy	Multi-time Scale Identification for Multi-energy Systems Chao Yanga. Yucai Zhua, a College of Control Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310027 China Abstract: Multi-energy systems have been leaping forward for its various benefits, e.g., energy conservation and emission reduction. Coupling components are capable of transmitting energy from one time scale system to another time scale system, so the multi-energy system exhibits multi-time scale characteristic and broad bandwidth, thereby causing difficulties in dynamic modeling. In this work, two- time scale system identification is studied. A method is developed to solve the problem, which is uses signal pre-filtering and subtraction. The high and low frequency parts of the two-time scale system are identified separately and then combined to form the incorporated in parallel structure. The consistency of the method is proved and case studies are used to verify the effectiveness of the method. Keywords : System identification; Multi-energy system; Multi-time scale system 1. Introduction 1.1 Research background and related work In conventional energy management, different energy systems have been managed separately. In this situation, electricity grid, heating network, and natural gas network are managed by national grid, district heating companies and gas companies, resulting low overall efficiency of power systems. Over the past decade, as fueled by the higher demand for energy and increasingly serious environmental problems, different energy systems are urgently required to be integrated for energy utilities. Multi-energy system has been developed for its wide benefits (e.g., energy conservation and emission reduction) 1 . Coupling components (e.g., combined heat and power units (CHP) 2 , combined cooling, heating, and power units (CCHP) 3 , as well as electric heating pumps) couple the systems together, turning the decentralized systems into an integrated system. The response time varies significantly with system: the dynamic response of electrical power system is significantly fast (in seconds) since electric energy is transmitted at the speed of light; hydraulic process has a fast dynamic response (in minutes) as pressure is transmitted at the speed of sound; network thermal process exhibits a slow dynamic response (in minutes or hours) because thermal energy is transmitted at the Corresponding author. E-mail: zhuyucai zju.edu.cn (Y. Zhu), ychao zju.edu.cn (C. Yang) speed of mass flow rate; the dynamic response of building temperature is significantly slow (in hours or days) for the considerable thermal capacity of buildings. Since the time scales of the above systems are significant different , if these systems are coupled, the integrated system is called a multi- time scale system. As illustrated in Fig. 1.1 (A), coupling component transfers disturbance bidirectionally, therefore, the dynamic characteristics of the subsystems are affected not only by their own characteristics, but also by the coupling systems. As illustrated in Fig. 1.1 (B), to an identical disturbance, the responses of different systems are significant different as the time scale difference exist. Thus, coupling between different energy systems leads to complex multi-time scale characteristics of the integrated system 4 , making it difficult to model multi-energy systems. Fig. 1.1. Mechanism of multi-time scale systems Dynamic modeling has been constantly neglected since the earlier studies primarily focused on planning and scheduling of multi-energy systems. Geidl 5 proposed a general steady-state modeling and optimization framework named Energy hub for energy systems. Faeze 6 proposed a residential energy hub model to optimize the energy management of buildings. Bao 7 modeled the steady-state performance of some typical coupling components. The above-mentioned static models cannot express the multi-time scale characteristics of the system. Following many in-depth studies, researchers have realized the importance of dynamic modeling of multi-energy systems, and numerous relevant researches have been conducted. Mechanism models are capable of effectively explaining physical properties of multi-time scale systems, whereas the mechanism of a process is very complicated and costly to model. Thus, many scholars have proposed a range of simplified modeling methods. Whalley 8 proposed an equivalent dynamic modelling method for gas transportation via long pipelines. Chen 9 introduced an electrical analogy for analysis and optimization of heat network. Pan 4 studied the interactions of electricity and heating system based on a quasi-steady state model. Most of the above works concentrated on the modelling of network, the dynamic characters of the coupling components are overly simplified ; Moreover, most of the results still need to be verified by practical applications. The application of data-driven method has been increasingly emphasized in the field of multi-energy system modeling. Sheikhi 10 studied the demand side management of residential buildings based on reinforcement learning method. Fu 11 estimated the failure probability of gas supply based on data-driven model. The most common applications of data- driven methods in multi-energy systems are load forecasting and demand side management, whereas the method is rarely applied to dynamic modeling of multi-energy systems. Some literatures 12 highlighted that the main restrictions of data- driven modeling include the considerable amount of data required for modeling and the weak generalization ability of the model, which reveals the common problems of machine learning and other similar methods in industrial applications. As another approach to process modeling, system identification has been extensively studied and widely applied in many fields 13,14 . Compared with mechanism modeling, system identification is in general cost effective and more accurate for complex dynamic systems. The system identification approach can reduce the amount of data required for modeling using proper identification test design. The generalization ability of the model can be enhanced by piecewise linearization of the model and other methods 15 . Besides, effective model validation methods exist to verify the obtained model. However, there are few papers focusing on the identification of multi-energy systems. The multi-time scale character of multi-energy system may cause some difficulties when using conventional system identification methods. 1.2 Contributions and outline This study focuses on dynamic modeling of multi-time scale systems using system identification, as the multi-time scale modeling is the critical problem in multi-energy system modeling 4 . The so-called filtering-subtraction method is developed to solve the problem, which is based on signal pre- filtering and subtraction. A simulated multi-energy system exhibiting
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	Optimal configuration of cooperative stationary and mobile energy storage considering ambient temperature : A case for Winter Olympic Game He Meng, Hongjie Jia, Tao Xu , Wei Wei , Yuhan Wu, Lemeng Liang, Shuqi Cai , Zuozheng Liu, Rujing Wang, Mengchao Li Email: taoxu2 011 tju.edu.cn Key Laboratory of Smart Grid of Ministry of Education, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China ABSTRACT The international mega -event, such as the Winter Olympic Game, has been considered as one of the most carbon intensive activities worldwide. The commitment o f fully renewable energy accommodation and utilization while ensuring the extreme high reliability has brought significant challenges on system operation due to the stochastic nature of the renewables. The battery energy storage system (BESS) composed of s tationary energy storage system (SESS) and shared mobile energy storage system (MESS) can be utilized to meet the requirements of short -term load surge s, renewable accommodation and emergency power supply for important loads during the mega -event . The BESS can continue to serve the venues electricity consumption to satisfy the carbon neutrality after the event. On the other hand, the low ambient temperature of Winter Olympic game has significant impact on BESS s degradation and performance which need to be integrated to the charging and discharging model of BESS. To this end, a joint two -stage optimal configuration method considering the ambient temperature of SESS and MESS has been developed to support the mega -event carbon neutrality, to reduce redundant BESS capacity allocation and improve the system life cycle cost - benefit. Simulation results have demonstrated the rationality and effectiveness of the collaborative operation of SESS and the MESS under various scenarios. Keywords: stationary mobile energ y storage system , thermal management, life cycle cost, arbitrage revenue , mixed integer second - order cone programming 1. Introduction The mega -event , such as Olympic Games, international conferences and exhibitions require high reliabilities on energy supply in lighting, audio, transportation, screen, media and data centers etc., consequently have been considered as one of the most carbon intensive activities worldwide. In March 2020, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) declared that from 2030 onwards all Olympic Games will be required to be climate positive which means the events will need to reduce their carbon emissions in line with the Paris Agreement and compensate more than 100 of their remaining emissions 1 . The organization committee of Tokyo Olympic Game has set the target for the first net zero carbon emission mega -event that relies on renewable energy resources. Without any spectators being present in any venues in Tokyo due to the global epidemic, the Olympic Game in Tokyo has offered a benchmark for mitigating the environmental impact of hosting mega -events with leading - edge technologies, including h ydrogen, self -driving electric vehicles (EVs), recycling techniques, as well as the artificial intelligence (AI). In January 2021, Paris 2024 organizing committee pledged to deliver the world s first climate positive Olympic and Paralympic Games 2 . The u pcoming Beijing Winter Olympic Game will attempt to be the first carbon -neutral Winter Olympics, aiming to make a real, tangible difference on energy utilization . With 100 renewable power supply to all 26 venues, t he carbon emission reduction during the m ega-event can be approximately 320,000 tons. After the game, the infrastructure such as REGs, flexible DC grid, energy storage system (ESS) and EV charging facilities etc. will continue to serve the capital s immense electricity consumption to satisfy the carbon neutrality 2 . However, the commitment of fully REG accommodation and utilization while ensuring the operation reliability has brought significant challenges due to the stochastic nature of the renewables, in particular under the extreme weather conditions for winter games 3 - 5 . Therefore, battery energy storage systems (BESSs) have been widely deployed during this mega -event to achieve the balance of carbon footprint reduction and secure energy supply, to meet the challenges from the variability and intermittency of the power generation from non-dispatchable REGs 6 . The BESS can also smooth the fluctuations, create energy arbitrage , improve power quality, participate auxiliary services etc. after the event 7 - 9 . To this end, the efficient BESS utilization can be recognized as one of the key technologies that enable the carbon neutral mega -event. According to the literature, the redundant configuration and associate cost of BESS are still the major issue that hindered the wide spread integration of BESS. Taking the operation strategies into the consideration of BESS planning, the contradiction of REG accommodation and cost control can be solved to a certain extent. Aiming at the wind power curtailment min imization and economic operation under normal operation, two -stage BESS optimal configuration approaches have been conducted 10 - 11 . By integrating the photovoltaic (PV) and the BESS into schedulable power supply, energy losses can be reduced and voltag e stability can be improved 12 , the system reliability, and the infrastructure upgrade deferral can be realized through load management under various pricing schemes 13 . For abnormal operation, the sitting and sizing of BESS considering the impact of grid reconfiguration have been determined via iterative solution where the decisions are made based on the minimization of line congestion and voltage deviations simultaneously 14 , or through the incorporated utilization of the soft open points (SOP s) and reactive power contribution of distributed generation 15 . The shared BESS means that the ownership and the utilization are different at most of the time. The owner can lease the assets for certain time of a periodic payment to satisfy the require ments of renters who cannot afford the high capital investment of BESS s 16 . In order to maximize the revenue of the asset owner and distribution network operators (DNOs), the shared BESS temporal and spatial operation schemes have been determined for distribution systems with proliferation of renewables 17 - 18 . A distributed optimization strategy of shared BESS based on game theory has been proposed, which
__label__energy	A method to estimate well flowing gas- oil ratio and composition using pressure and temperature measurements across a production choke, a seed composition of oil and gas , and a thermodynamic simulator Seok Ki Moon, Milan Stanko. Department of Geosciences. Norwegian University of Science and Technology. Correspo nding author: milan.stanko ntnu.no Abstract In this work we propose and demonstrate a method to estimate the flowing gas -oil ratio and composition of a hydrocarbon well stream using measurements of pressure and temperature across a production choke. The method consists of using a numerical solver on a thermodynamic simulator to recombine a seed oil and gas until the simulated temperature drop across the choke is equal to the measured value . This method is meant for cases where it is not possible to measure periodically individual well composition (e.g. subsea wells producing to a common pipeline ). The method uses a seed composition of oil and gas that could come from e.g. sampling and fluid testing when the well was drilled , periodic sampling of commingled well streams at processing facilities , reservoir simulation predictions, etc . A study case and reference solution were generated using the reservoir model presented in the SPE (Society of Petroleum Engineers) comparative case Nr. 5 linked with a process simulator . Time profiles of well producing gas-oil ratio , wellstream compositions , compositions of surface conditions oil and gas , and temperature drop across the choke were generated with the models. The method proposed was then employed to estimate the flowing gas-oil ratio of the reference solution . The seed compositions employed were compositions of surface oil and gas taken from the reference solution at initial time and selected time steps (respectively representing the cases of sampling and fluid testing when the well was drilled and periodic sampling of commingled well streams in the field processing facilities ). Results show that the proposed method predicts with reasonable accuracy (maximum 12 percent error) the well gas-oil ratio and compositions during the life of the field when using compositions of surface oil and gas from initial time . When using compositions of surface oil and gas from later times, the prediction accuracy of the gas -oil ratio improves at those times but worsens for times before and after. A measurement error for the temperature drop across the choke of at least 0.01 C is required to achieve convergence of the method. The mean percent error between the predicted and real mole fraction s has an upper bound in time of 2 1 when using initial surface oil and gas as seed compositions . The proposed method can be integrated in virtual metering schemes and choke models to determine surface and local flowing ratios of oil and gas. The proposed method could be also used to predict flowing water cut. 1. Introduction 1.1. Estimation of well composition The properties of reservoir fluids are mainly dependent on their chemical (e.g. molar) composition. Accurate assessment of fluid composition is crucial for reserve estimation, field development and production facilities design, production monitoring, history matching and forecast. Lack of information about reservoir fluid s may result in inappropriate design and operational choices that could bring negative consequences and financial losses to the project. Therefore , in most petroleum engineering work processes it is essential to have a good estimate of reservoir fluid properties. In the present study we focus mainly on molar composition of wellstream fluids. The molar composition of the wellstream will change with time depending on the type of processes occurring in the reservoir (e.g. gas coning into the well, preferential mobility of oil or gas towards the well, oil vaporization, condensation, etc.). One common method to determine the wellstream fluid characteristics is fluid sampling during well test. Reservoir fluid can be collected either at the well bottom -hole or at the surface test separator. Bottom -hole sample s can be collected using wireline and high -pressure container s while surface sample s can be taken from the oil and gas streams of the test separator and recombined. Fluid samples can be retrieved in exploration, at production startup, and during production. The characteristics of hydrocarbon fluid s are then determined by laboratory analysis , where t he list of fluid chemical components and their amount s are reported after a series of test s. However, fluid sampling often involve s significant costs. Taking bottom -hole samples may require to shut-in producing well s which causes loss of revenue . In addition, it is difficult to obtain large sample volume s due to the limited size of the sampling container and the sample might not be representative. Alternatively, surface samples are relatively easy to collect but it sampling individual wells may require installing test flowlines and a test separator . Then fluid samples of each well can be obtained by changing valve routing. However, this can be cost -prohibitive and impractical for large onshore oil and gas field s with multiple wells and commingling production network, and for subsea fields. In many cases it is not possible to measure the flowing composition during the life of the field, except for samples taken at an early stage during exploration or production drilling . Changes in wellstream composition usually reflect on changes in the producing gas -oil ratio of the well. The gas -oil ratio in this context is the ratio between the volumes of gas and oil at standard conditions. In the past, authors have proposed methods to estimate fluid compositions using gas-oil ratio measurements and recombination of seed oil and gas in different proportions until the measured gas -oil ratio is achieved . The recombination is typically performed experimentally in the laboratory or with the use of numerical simulation. The producing oil -gas ratio also depends on the surface process, e.g. number of stages and pressures and temperatures of each stage. Moreover, the gas-oil ratio also depends on the location in the separation facilities where the oil and gas rates are measured.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	Emergent Cooperation for Energy-efficient Connectivity via Wireless Power Transfer Winston Hurst, Anurag Pallaprolu and Yasamin Mostofi Abstract This paper addresses the challenge of incentivizing energy-constrained, non-cooperative user equipment (UE) to serve as cooperative relays. We consider a source UE with a non-line-of-sight channel to an access point (AP), where direct communication may be infeasible or may necessitate a substantial transmit power. Other UEs in the vicinity are viewed as relay candidates, and our aim is to enable energy-efficient connectivity for the source, while accounting for the self-interested behavior and private channel state information of these candidates, by allowing the source to pay the candidates via wireless power transfer (WPT). We propose a cooperation-inducing protocol, inspired by Myerson auction theory, which ensures that can- didates truthfully report power requirements while minimizing the expected power used by the source. Through rigorous analysis, we establish the regularity of valuations for lognormal fading channels, which allows for the efficient determination of the optimal source transmit power. Extensive simulation experiments, employing real-world communication and WPT parameters, validate our theoretical framework. Our results demonstrate over 71 reduction in outage probability with as few as 4 relay candidates, compared to the non-cooperative scenario, and as much as 70 source power savings compared to a baseline approach, highlighting the efficacy of our proposed methodology.I. I NTRODUCTION The forthcoming 6G wireless standard promises to revolu- tionize wireless communication by delivering significant im- provements in reliability, data rates, and energy efficiency 1 . Achieving the desired technical performance depends on several emerging technologies and paradigms, which in turn bring their own challenges. For instance, high frequency communication (e.g., mmWave, THz) enables vastly increased capacity, but suffers from acute shadowing and penetration losses 2 . At the same time, given the ever-increasing number of connected devices, there is a growing need for scalable sys- tem design, with reduced reliance on centralized coordination mechanisms, to produce the desired performance. This paper proposes the use of wireless power trans- fer (WPT) 3 to induce cooperative behavior among non- cooperative communication devices, with the end goal of enabling connectivity and or reducing energy consumption. More specifically, we consider a setting in which a large-scale blockage ( e.g., a wall) obstructs the line-of-sight (LoS) link between a user equipment (UE) and an access point (AP), so that direct communication is challenging. To reduce the power required to connect to the AP, the blocked user may offer to Winston Hurst, Anurag Pallaprolu, and Yasamin Mostofi are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Cal- ifornia, Santa Barbara, USA (email: winstonhurst ece.ucsb.edu, apal- laprolu ucsb.edu, ymostofi ece.ucsb.edu). This work was supported in part by NSF RI award 2008449 and in part by ONR award N00014-23-1-2715. Fig. 1. Fundamental scenario considered in this work: A single source UE attempts to communicate with a blocked AP using one of the nrelay candidate UEs, incentivizing cooperation with wireless power transfer. send a payment of power (via WPT) to a more advantageously placed UE, in exchange for relay services. The core problem we address in this paper is the identification of the optimal relay candidate from a potentially extensive set of options, along with the determination of the associated power cost. Extensive prior work considers the use of wireless power transfer and related technologies to enable relaying in coop- erative settings, in contexts such as IoT networks or device- to-device communication 4 , 5 . Other works, such as 6 , more explicitly acknowledge the need to incentivize the relay operation, but still assume a basic level of cooperation. We instead consider fully non-cooperative relay candidate devices that are energy limited, and possibly mobile ( e.g., a cellular phone or autonomous vehicle), thus requiring an incentive to provide the relay service. We approach the scenario from a game-theoretic perspective, inspired by several-decades-old seminal work on auction theory, to develop a protocol which creates emergent cooperation among non-cooperative entities. Game theory has long been an important tool in the design and analysis of communication systems 7 , 8 , and recent years have seen the use of auctions linked to WPT in con- junction with energy markets 9 . These works, however, apply auctions in the fiscal domain, using money as the payment medium. In contrast, we propose the use of wireless power itself as an RF-native currency , thus eliminating the need for complex configuration and integration between the physical wireless system and financial infrastructure. Our contributions are succinctly stated below: We consider a source UE with a non-line-of-sight (NLoS) channel to an AP, so that communication either requires significant transmit power or is impossible altogether. This 2024 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.arXiv:2404.14729v3 eess.SY 31 Mar 2025 source seeks to use WPT to incentivize non-cooperative, energy limited UEs to act as cooperative relays (see Fig. 1). We pose the problem of finding a cooperation-inducing protocol which minimizes the energy consumption of the source, while accounting for the self-interested rationality of the relay candidates and their private channel state information, which is unavailable to the source. We show that the solution to our problem is given by a Myerson auction 10 , with valuations determined by the minimum source transmit power needed for the relay candidates to be neutral towards cooperation. We provide a rigorous proof that these valuations are regular for wireless channels described by lognormal fading, which allows the optimal source transmit power to be found with a simple bisection search. We validate our theoretical findings through extensive sim- ulation experiments, with communication and WPT param- eter values taken from real-world experiments reported in the literature. Our results demonstrate a 71 reduction in outage probability with as few as 4 relay candidates compared to
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	2025 PhotonIcs Electromagnetics Research Symposium, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 4 -8 May PIERS Energy consumption of Robotic Arm with the Local Reduction Method Halima Ibrahim Kure1, Jishna Retnakumari1, Lucian Nita1, Saeed Sharif1, Hamed Balogun2, and Augustine O. Nwajana3 1University of East London UK 2Edge Hill University UK 3University of Greenwich, UK Abstract Energy consumption in robotic arms is a significant concern in industrial automation due to rising operational costs and environmental impact. This study investigates the use of a local reduction method to optimize energy efficiency in robotic systems without compromising performance. The approach refines movement parameters , minimizing energy use while maintaining precision and operational reliability. A three -joint robotic arm model was tested using simulation over a 30 -second period for various tasks, including pick -and-place and trajectory -following operations. The results revealed that the local reduction method reduced energy consumption by up to 25 compared to traditional techniques such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) and Genetic Algorithms (GA). Unlike MPC, which requires significant computational resources, and GA, which has slow convergence rates, the local reduction method demonstrated superior adaptability and computational efficiency in real -time applications. The study highlights the scalability and simplicity of the local reduction approach, making it an attractive option for industries seeking sustainable and cost -effective solutions. Additionally, this method can integrate seamlessly with emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI), further enhancing its application in dynamic and complex environments. This research underscores the potential of the local reduction method as a practical tool for optimizing robotic arm operations, reducing energy demands, and contributing to sustainability in industrial automation. Future work will focus on extending the approach to real - world scenarios and incorporating AI -driven adjustments for more dynamic adaptability. Keywords Energy Optimization, Robotic Arm, Local Reduction Method, Trajectory Optimization, Sustainable Robotics I. INTRODUCTION Modern production relies heavily on industrial automation, particularly when it is in use robotic arms 1 . Though effective, robotic systems are sometimes using lot of energy, which increases expenses and also affect the environmental impact 2 . By lowering energy needs that too without sacrificing performance, energy optimization in robotic operations can help to address these issues 3 . The aim of this work is to minimize energy consumption in robotic arms by using an optimization strategy derived from the local reduction method. Unlike conventional techniques, which can concentrate on trajectory or component -specific optimizations 4 , the local reduction method iteratively refines movements based on energy consumption across the entire operation 5 . This work applies this approach to a robotic arm model and simulates its performance to evaluate if energy savings can be achieved. II. LITERATURE REVIEW In industrial automation, where performance and efficiency are crucial aspect, robotic arms are commonly utilized to achieve this. Research has shown that optimization of robotic arm movement for energy efficiency is very important 6 . By regulating joint motions, movement and torque can greatly reduce energy consumption while maintaining required performance levels 7 . Model Predictive Control (MPC): MPC forecasts the future states of a system that it will reach and modifies its control inputs to minimize energy use 8 . While it is effective, it requires high computational resource which limit its application in resource -constrained contexts 9 . Genetic Algorithms (GA): GA uses a natural selection principle to optimize joint configurations for energy efficiency 1 0 . Although it is also adaptable, GA s iterative structure can take a very long time for convergence, making it less suitable for real -time applications 1 1 . Artificial Intelligence (AI): AI-based techniques dynamically adjust robotic pathways in response to changing conditions, providing flexibility and efficiency 12 . These methods excel in dynamic environments but require substantial training data 1 3 . Local Reduction Method: By repeatedly iterating refining movement parameters to achieve energy requirements, the local reduction method offers computational efficiency and adaptability for real -time applications. It does not rely on predictive modeling or iterative population searches, making it a promising alternative 14 . In conclusion, while MPC and GA are effective, their computational demands limit real -time application. The local reduction method offers a computationally efficient alternative suitable for industrial use 15 . 2025 PhotonIcs Electromagnetics Research Symposium, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 4 -8 May PIERS III. METHODOLOGY This section details the methods used to model energy consumption and apply the local reduction method for optimization. Problem Formulation The energy consumption for a joint is calculated by integrating the product of torque and angular velocity over time. The energy consumption minimization problem will be formul ated as an objective function: (1) where τi (t) is the torque applied to joint i and ωi(t) is the angular velocity of joint i. This integral represents the total energy consumed by all joints of the robotic arm over the operation period from t0 to tf. Constraints 1. Reach Constraint: Ensuring the arm can reach all required positions: Reach (x, y, z) Max This constraint ensures that the robotic arm can physically reach the required positions within its workspace. 2. Strength Constrain t: Ensuring the torque applied to each joint is within allowable limits: τi τi, max This constraint ensures that the joints do not exceed their maximum torque capacity, preventing damage and ensuring safe operation. 3. Precision Constraint: Ensuring the en d effector achieves the desired position within a specified error margin: Position Error ϵ This constraint ensures that the robotic arm can achieve the desired precision, which is critical for tasks requiring high accuracy. Local Reduction Method Implem entation 1. Initialization: Set k 0 and choose an initial finite subset Y0 Y. 2. Approximating Problem: Solve the kth approximating problem to compute xk . 3. Auxiliary Problem: Solve the kth auxiliary problem to find the most violated constraint and update the co nstraint set. 4. Iteration: Check for convergence and update k. Repeat until the solution meets all constraints. Simulation Setup The robotic arm model includes three joints, with each joint having defined lengths and angular ranges. Energy consumption is calculated
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Material Hardness Descriptor Derived by Symbolic Regression Christian Tantardinia,b,c, Hayk A. Zakaryand, Zhong-Kang Hane, Tariq Altalhif, Sergey V. Levchenkoe, Alexander G. Kvashning, Boris I. Yakobsonb,f aHylleraas center, Department of Chemistry, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, P.O. Box 6050 Langnes, Tromsø, N-9037, Norway bDepartment of Materials Science and Nanoengineering, Rice University, 6100 Main St, Houston, 77005, Texas, United States of America cInstitute of Solid State Chemistry and Mechanochemistry SB RAS, Kutateladze 18, Novosibirsk, 630128, Russian Federation dYerevan State University, 1 Alex Manoogian St., Yerevan, 0025, Armenia eZhejiang University, 866 Yuhangtang Rd, Hangzhou, 310027, China fChemistry Department, Taif University, P.O. Box 11099, Taif, 21944, Saudi Arabia gSkolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, Bolshoy Boulevard 30, bld. 1, Moscow, 121205, Russian Federation Abstract Hardness is a materials property with implications in several industrial fields, including oil and gas, manufacturing, and others. However, the relationship between this macroscale property and atomic (i.e., microscale) properties is unknown and in the last decade several models have unsuccessfully tried to correlate them in a wide range of chemical space. The understanding of such relationship is of fundamental importance for discovery of harder materials with specific characteristics to be employed in a wide range of fields. In this work, we have found a physical descriptor for Vickers hardness using a symbolic-regression artificial-intelligence approach based on compressed sensing. SISSO (Sure Independence Screening plus Sparsifying Operator) is an artificial-intelligence algorithm used for discovering simple and inter- pretable predictive models. It performs feature selection from up to billions of candidates obtained from several primary features by applying a set of Email addresses: christiantantardini ymail.com (Christian Tantardini), biy rice.edu (Boris I. Yakobson) Preprint submitted to Journal of Computational Science August 8, 2024arXiv:2304.12880v4 cond-mat.mtrl-sci 7 Aug 2024 mathematical operators. The resulting sparse SISSO model accurately de- scribes the target property (i.e., Vickers hardness) with minimal complexity. We have considered the experimental values of hardness for binary, ternary, and quaternary transition-metal borides, carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides, carboborides, and boronitrides of 61 materials, on which the fitting was per- formed.. The found descriptor is a non-linear function of the microscopic properties, with the most significant contribution being from a combination of Voigt-averaged bulk modulus, Poisson s ratio, and Reuss-averaged shear modulus. Results of high-throughput screening of 635 candidate materials using the found descriptor suggest the enhancement of material s hardness through mixing with harder yet metastable structures (e.g., metastable VN, TaN, ReN 2, Cr 3N4, and ZrB 6all exhibit high hardness). Keywords: Hardness, SISSO, machine learning, symbolic regression, superhard materials 1. Introduction Hardness is a mechanical property of materials important for several in- dustrial applications. In particular, hardness is measured and used as a parameter determining the type of application itself for materials in con- struction or manufacturing, e.g., cutting, drilling, or grinding 1, 2, 3 . Over the years, various scales of hardness have been proposed. The Vickers scale is considered universal because it spans both macro- and micro-scales and is independent of the size of the indenter 4 . Thus, Vickers hardness is com- monly measured in various applications to determine whether a material is superhard, typically 40 GPa or higher hardness 5, 6 . In some applications these materials are required to fulfil additional requirements. For example, they need to preserve their hardness at high pressure and temperature, be non-toxic, and so on. Therefore, searching for hard and superhard materials with different chemical compositions remains an important challenge. The best candidates for superhard materials are borides, carbides, and nitrides of metals 7, 8 . In order to find materials with high hardness among many candidates, one can synthesize and test all of them one by one. However, this is obviously a very inefficient approach. Alternatively, one can find a correlation between hardness and features (or their mathematical combinations) that are easy to evaluate. This correlation can then be used to quickly explore the chemical 2 Training set of ma- terials (61 materials) Primary features (first- principles calculations)Target property (experimental values of Vicker s hardness) Complex features (combina- tions of primary features by a set of mathematical operators) Feature selection and model construction (SISSO) Physically interpretable microscopic descriptor High-throughput screening (635 materials with different com- position and crystal structure) Figure 1: Schematic workflow of the SISSO method, illustrating the steps from the training set and primary features to the final high-throughput screening. space of candidate materials (see also discussion and Fig.3 in Penev et al. 9 ). Such a combination of features is called descriptor. Both macroscopic properties (fluidity, elastic stiffness, ductility, strength, crack resistance and viscosity) and microscopic properties (from atomistic simulations) can be important constituents of the descriptor 4 . Which fea- tures are most important or sufficient is unknown, but it is known that none of the single features tested so far is a good descriptor. On the other hand, a set of physically relevant features can be relatively easily obtained from atom- istic simulations. Therefore, it is attractive to explore whether a mathemati- 3 cal combination of such features (perhaps non-linear) correlates with Vickers hardness. In the last decade several semi-empirical models were developed that use elastic properties as input to predict the hardness 10, 11, 12 . Low accuracy of such models points out that other features must be included. Recently, Podryabinkin et al. 13 proposed an alternative approach to calculate the hardness, which utilises first-principles calculations and ma- chine learning potentials that were actively learned on local atomic environ- ments in order to explicitly model the process of nanoindentation. Although this method is highly accurate, it is too computationally expensive for a high-throughput screening. Thus, there is a need for a physical, easily com- putable descriptor of hardness that can be used for a high-throughput search for superhard materials in the vast chemical space. Such descriptor is found here using sure independence screening plus sparsifying operator (SISSO) 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 . In the past, neural networks have been used several times to describe Vickers hardness 20, 21, 22, 23 . However, the considered chemical
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	Deriving Loss Function for Value-oriented Renewable Energy Forecasting Yufan Zhang , Honglin Wen , Yuexin Bian , and Yuanyuan Shi Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA Department of Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China Abstract Renewable energy forecasting is the workhorse for efficient energy dispatch. However, forecasts with small mean squared errors (MSE) may not necessarily lead to low operation costs. Here, we propose a forecasting approach specifically tailored for operational purposes, by incorporating operational problems into the estimation of forecast models via designing aloss function . We formulate a bilevel program, where the operation problem is at the lower level, and the forecast model estimation is at the upper level. We establish the relationship between the lower-level optimal solutions and forecasts through multiparametric programming. By integrating it into the upper- level objective for minimizing expected operation cost, we convert the bilevel problem to a single-level one and derive the loss function for training the model. It is proved to be piecewise linear, for linear operation problem. Compared to the commonly used loss functions, e.g. MSE, our approach achieves lower operation costs. Index Terms Renewable energy forecast, Point forecast, Loss function design, Multiparametric programming I. I NTRODUCTION Forecasting is usually regarded as an indispensable tool to accommodate the uncertainty of renewable energy sources (RESs). It leverages information at the current time and predicts the generation at future time. Typically, the forecast model can be developed using data-driven methods, especially cutting-edge techniques such as deep learning 1 and gradient boosting machines 2 . At the model estimation (training) stage, a loss function is required to guide the optimization of the forecast model parameters. For instance, mean squared error (MSE) and pinball loss 3 are respectively used as loss functions for point and quantile forecasting. At the operation stage, forecasts are issued via the trained model and fed into the subsequent operation problem as inputs, which is referred to as the predict, then optimze pipeline. Till now, several models have been developed to improve the statistical quality of forecasts; see a comprehensive review 4 . Unsurprisingly, forecasts can impact decisions, and there- fore impact the value of the operation problem. Previous studies show that there is no guarantee that forecasts with good statistical quality lead to higher value in operations 5 7 (e.g., no guarantee for lower operational costs). It has been suggested in 8 that strategic forecasts are preferred when the penalty on forecast deviation is asymmetric. Therefore, it is promising to design forecast models with high operational value instead of high accuracy. Here, we refer to such forecastsasvalue-oriented forecasts and the traditional ones as quality- oriented forecasts . Typically, the most salient challenge to developing value- oriented forecast models lies in model training. For that, one idea is to integrate the forecast model into the downstream operation problem and estimate the parameters by solving the integrated program, with the assumption that forecast model is linear 9 . Another idea is to encode the operation problem as a differentiable optimization layer 10 , 11 , and to estimate the forecast model together with solving the operation problem in an end-to-end fashion. However, they all confine forecast models to specific types 9 11 , the former requires the forecast models to be linear while the latter requires models to be differentiable, which hinders the applicability. A more general idea is to design loss functions for forecast model estimation that capture the value of the forecast in subsequent operational problems. For instance, the regret loss has been widely used 12 , which is defined as the difference between the optimal objective values under the realization and the forecast. With this idea, the Smart Predict, then Optimize (SPO) loss is proposed in 13 , with a special focus on single- stage operation problems with linear objectives where the cost vector contains unknown parameters 14 . However, it may have limited applicability in the context of sequential power systems operation, where the value of forecast is related with multiple correlated operation problems. Concretely, most power systems operation problems are organized into two stages 15 : at the day-ahead stage, the generation schedule of slow-start generators based on RES forecasts is established; while at the real-time stage close to the actual delivery, any imbalance from the day-ahead schedule is settled by scheduling flexible resources. Therefore, it remains an open issue to design value-oriented forecasting approach for use in such sequential operation problems. In contrast to the approach taken in 16 , 17 in which they design a heuristic 16 or empirical 17 loss function, we propose to theoretically derive a loss function for value- oriented forecasting. The special focus is placed on the virtual power plant (VPP) operator with wind power, which performs the day-ahead and real-time energy dispatch. The wind power forecast is issued for the day-ahead problem, and the real-time problem is performed to settle the forecast deviation. In this line, the value of the forecast is related to the sum of operation costs of the day-ahead and real-time problems. Similar to our previous work 18 , we formulate the task of forecast model 23nd Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2024Paris-Saclay, France June 4th 7th, 2024arXiv:2310.00571v1 eess.SY 1 Oct 2023 parameter estimation as a bilevel program, where the lower level solves the day-ahead and real-time problems given the forecasts issued by the upper level. Based on the optimal solutions provided by the lower level, the forecast model parameters at the upper level are estimated, for minimizing the expected total operation costs at two stages. Different from 18 where only a local loss function in the neighborhood of a given sample is obtained, in this work, we derive the analytical form of loss function across the entire do- main of forecast values via multiparametric programming 19 . Concretely, under the assumption that the day-ahead and real- time energy dispatch problems are linear programs (LPs), the relationship between the forecasts and the optimal solutions to
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	1 Atomic Anatomy of Low-Inertia Power Systems Subham Sahoo, Senior Member, IEEE , Arpan Malkhandi and Kristian Skafte Jensen Abstract In this letter, we determine a fundamental anatom- ical modeling parallelism between low-inertia power systems and Bohr s atomic model. The proposed atomic architecture will serve as a microscopic building block , where we validate the structural analogy of low-inertia power systems using semi- classical quantum approximations in IEEE 9-bus system. As a future scope of work, detailed modeling system stability will be investigated using atomic physics based principles. Index Terms Low-inertia power systems, Bohr model, Semi- classical models, Power system stability, Power systems modeling. I. I NTRODUCTION INERTIA in power systems is usually governed by the inherent rotational mass in synchronous machines (SM) 1 . From a system perspective, converter-interfaced generation (CIG) that allow integration of renewable energy sources behave quite differently from SM. Apart from their intermittent nature, CIG without any stored kinetic energy do not implicitly contribute to the system inertia due to electrical decoupling. With increased penetration of power from renewable energy sources and the current decarbonization goals, the future power network is highly prone to system instability. From a curiosity-driven research viewpoint, this letter pro- poses a fundamentally new anatomical modeling parallelism between the low-inertia power systems and Bohr s atomic model by hypothesizing a structural duality of the system with respect to different components in the smallest fundamental particle, i.e., an atom. A transformative understanding to model future power systems as an atom will not only unravel generation of better set-points for reduced numerical compu- tational efforts to assess the system stability, but will also serve as a building block based planning tool to encompass power system expansion and integration in the future only using inter-atomic physical interactions. We argue against the single mass model of power systems that represent frequency as a global parameter by splitting it spatially into the rotational inertia in SM and virtual inertia in CIG 2 (commonly known as virtual synchronous generators (VSGs)) of the future power systems into different atomic components as per Bohr s prophecy. Finally, we validate the proposed structural duality based on the center-of-mass theory and semi-classical quantum approximations in Bohr s model. II. T HEBOHR ATOMIC MODEL Proposed by Niels Bohr in his paper On the Constitution of Atoms and Molecules 3 in 1913, the Bohr atomic model is a structural representation of a hydrogen atom consisting of a nucleus made up of a single proton, and an orbiting electron, This work is supported by the Nordic Energy Research programme via Next-uGrid project n. 117766. e- E hvE hv Nn 1n 2 Structural Duality Bohr s Model Low-Inertia Power System Nucleus Synchronous machine Electron Virtual synchronous generator Nuclear mass Rotational inertia Virtual inertia Electron mass Electron orbit VoltageFig. 1. The atomic solar system Atomic nucleus depicting a SM and two of the possible orbits for an electron, denoting a VSG. When the activation energy Eis released by an electron, it moves from one orbit to another similar to how the terminal voltage across a VSG changes under a step change in reference energy. as shown in Fig. 1. The model is best summarized by three fundamental postulates: 1) As opposed to the classical theory of electromagnetism, electron(s) can be located at certain stable orbits, known as stationary orbits, without either absorbing or emitting any energy. 2) These stationary orbits are attained at discrete distance from the nucleus. Specifically, orbits are attained at pre- cise, unchangeable radii, wherein the angular momentum of the orbiting electron is an integer multiple of the reduced Planck constant, ℏin the quantization equation, L nℏ, where nis the principal quantum number and describes the energy level of the electron. 3) Electrons can only interact using electromagnetic radia- tion by jumping from one orbit to another. An electron can jump to a higher energy level by absorbing a photon, and can jump to a lower energy level by emitting a photon. The energy of these photons is determined as the difference between the energies of the two orbits, which by the Planck relation gives E Ef Ei hν, where EfandEiare the energies of the final and initial orbits, respectively. Furthermore, his the Planck constant, and νis the frequency of the photon. Remark I: The energy dissipation absorption Ein Bohr s model is a spatial phenomena with its bounded orbital radius scattered around the nucleus. III. S TRUCTURAL DUALITY A. Mass Identification in Systems Converters With system frequency considered as a global parameter, the SMs can be aggregated into a single-mass model with its rotor dynamics given by: d2δ dt2 ωs 2H(Pm Pe), (1) where, δis the electric angle of the SM. Further, Pmand Peare mechanical and electrical power, respectively, witharXiv:2305.12574v2 eess.SY 16 Jul 2024 2 ωsbeing the synchronous speed. Lastly, H Jω2 s 2Sratedis the normalized inertia constant , where Jis the moment of inertia andSratedis the rated power of SM. TABLE I STRUCTURAL INSIGHTS FROM IEEE 9-B USSYSTEM 1. Case study with 1 VSG 2 SMs Case VSG Va,PbSM1 V,P SM2 V,P Case I 2 1.006,140 3 0.997,170 1 0.993,170 Case II 6 0.984,133 3 0.971,174 1 0.976,174 Case III 1 0.983,127 2 0.963,172 3 0.963,172 2. Case study with 2 VSGs 1 SM Case VSG1 V,P VSG2 V,P SM V,P Case IV 1 1,156 2 0.996,125 3 1.03,212 Case V 3 1.004,152 2 1.001,121 1 0.979,214 3. Case study with 3 SMs VSGs Case 1 V,P 2 V,P 3 V,P Case VI SM1 0.978,148 SM2 0.96,132 SM3 0.984,164 Case VII VSG1 0.998,143 VSG2 0.994,165 VSG3 0.986,198 Case VII VSG1 0.995,148 VSG2 0.988,176 VSG3 1.012,196 denote the bus number,aVis normalized in p.u.,bPis stated in MW. For a solid cylinder rotating about an axis (such as a rotor shaft in SM), the moment of inertia J 1 2mr2, where m andrdenote the mass and radius of the cylinder, respectively. Hence, a higher mass not only contributes to a higher moment of inertia, but also naturally align to a smaller change in
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Hydroelectric energy conversion of waste flows through hydroelectronic drag Baptiste Coquinot1, Lydéric Bocquet1, and Nikita Kavokine2,3,4 1Laboratoire de Physique de l École Normale Supérieure, ENS, Université PSL, CNRS, Sorbonne Université, Université Paris Cité, 24 rue Lhomond, 75005 Paris, France 2Max Planck Institute for Polymer Research, Ackermannweg 10, 55128 Mainz, Germany 3Center for Computational Quantum Physics, Flatiron Institute, 162 5thAvenue, New York, NY 10010, USA 4The Quantum Plumbing Lab (LNQ), École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Station 6, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland (Dated: October 22, 2024) Hydraulic energy is a key component of the global energy mix, yet there exists no practical way of harvesting it at small scales, from flows with low Reynolds number. This has triggered a search for alternative hydroelectric conversion methodologies, leading to unconventional proposals based on droplet triboelec- tricity, water evaporation, osmotic energy or flow-induced ionic Coulomb drag. Yet, these approaches systematically rely on ions as intermediate charge car- riers, limiting the achievable power density. Here, we predict that the kinetic energy of small-scale waste flows can be directly and efficiently converted into electricity thanks to the hydro-electronic drag effect, by which an ion-free liquid induces an electronic current in the solid wall along which it flows. This effect originates in the fluctuation-induced coupling between fluid motion and electron transport. We develop a non-equilibrium thermodynamic formalism to assess the efficiency of such hydroelectric energy conversion, dubbed hydronic energy. We find that hydronic energy conversion is analogous to thermoelectricity, with the efficiency being controlled by a dimensionless figure of merit. However, in contrast to its thermoelectric analogue, this figure of merit combines indepen- dently tunable parameters of the solid and the liquid, and can thus significantly exceed unity. Our findings suggest new strategies for blue energy harvesting without electrochemistry, and for waste flow mitigation in membrane-based fil- tration processes. lyderic.bocquet ens.fr nikita.kavokine epfl.charXiv:2403.20209v2 physics.flu-dyn 21 Oct 2024 2 Significance statement .At large scales, where fluid dynamics are governed by inertia, a tur- bine can convert this inertia into electricity with an efficiency in excess of 90 . At the smaller scales where viscous effects dominate, turbines are no longer efficient, and no satisfactory alternative has been identified so far. Yet, significant amounts of energy are lost to viscous flows in membrane-based filtration and osmotic energy conversion. Here, we propose a new physical principle for nanoscale hydroelectric energy conversion dubbed hydronic energy which exploits the recently discovered fluctuation-induced quantum friction phenomenon. We develop a theoretical framework to assess its efficiency, and demonstrate its pertinence for generating electricity from liquid flows in the viscous regime. Since its invention by Hero of Alexandria two thousand years ago, the turbine has been the tool of choice for converting the kinetic energy of a fluid flow into useful work. It is now a mature technology, with the hydroelectric conversion efficiency of modern turbines reaching over 90 1 . However, turbines only function at macroscopic scales and with sufficiently fast flows. When the Reynolds number decreases below the turbulence transition, the turbine efficiency plummets 2, 3 . Thus, from an energetic standpoint, low Reynolds number flows are waste flows , in the same way as temperatures below 100 C are low-grade waste heat, still out of reach in terms of industrial energy recovery. Waste flows systematically arise in membrane-based filtration processes, as they involve liquids flowing through nanoscale pores 4 7 . The kinetic energy of these flows is either lost to friction with the pore walls or dumped with the concentrated feed solution, and harvesting it could mitigate the energetic cost of filtration. There also exist various strategies for converting industrial waste heat into liquid flow 8, 9 . Despite the ubiquity of waste flows, they have so far been converted to useful work only with limited efficiency. Existingstrategiesarebasedonawiderangeofastutephysicalprinciples,suchasdropletimpacts andtriboelectricity 10 13 , waterevaporation 14 17 , orelectrolyteflowsalongconductors 18 22 , to name a few. Although diverse, these methodologies are rooted in the streaming of dissolved ions under the liquid flow, which through the image charge effect results in an electronic current in the contiguous conducting wall: an effect that has been termed ionic Coulomb drag . These routes led to the design of small-scale energy generators, with various applications. However, their power- density remains overall limited, as well as difficult to scale up. In particular, ion polarization effects at membranes, and the charge imbalance associated with ion separation, are strong limitations to any ion-based energy conversion process 23 . 3 Ion-free hydrodynamic Coulomb drag However, the use of ions as intermediate charge carriers to induce an electronic current is not necessarily a prerequisite. Indeed, we have shown recently 24 that it is possible to directlyconvert the kinetic energy of a flowing liquid into an electronic current within the solid wall a phenomenon dubbed hydrodynamic Coulomb drag 24 or hydro-electronic drag. In the following, we adopt the latter denomination, to emphasize the distinction with the ionic Coulomb drag described above. At the root of hydro-electronic drag is the solid-liquid quantum friction phenomenon 25 29 , where fluctuating interactions between the liquid and the solid result in momentum transfer from the liquid to the solid s electrons. The rate of this momentum transfer is quantified by the quantum or hydro-electronic friction coefficient, expressed as 25 λhe 1 8π2 integraldisplay 0qdq(ℏq) integraldisplay 0d(ℏω) kBTq sinh2 parenleft ig ℏω 2kBT parenright igIm ge(q, ω) Im gh(q, ω) 1 ge(q, ω)gh(q, ω) 2, (1) where the functions gh eare the surface response functions of the fluid and electrons in the solid, respectively, describing their charge density fluctuations 25 . Quantum friction accounts, in partic- ular, for the anomalous water permeability of carbon nanotubes, in terms of the anomalously large quantum friction on multilayer carbon surfaces as compared to isolated graphene layers 25, 30 . Overall, a liquid flow can thus transfer momentum to the solid s electrons, resulting in an electric current proportional to the flow velocity. This process requires neither dissolved ions in the liquid, nor a surface charge on the solid wall. It is thus
__label__energy	Actors in Multi-Sector Transitions - Discourse Analysis on Hydrogen in Germany Nils Ohlendorf1,2, Meike L ohr3Jochen Markard4,5 1Technische Universit at Berlin, Department of Economics of Climate Change, Straße des 17. Juni 145, 10623 Berlin, Germany 2Mercator Research Institute on Global Commons and Climate Change, Torgauer Staße 12-15, 10829 Berlin, Germany 3Carl von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Institute of Social Sciences, Oldenburg, Germany 4Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Z urich, Department of Management, Technology and Economics, Z urich, Switzerland 5Zurich University of Applied Sciences, Institute of Sustainable Development, Winterthur, Switzerland Corresponding author: Nils Ohlendorf, Torgauer Staße 12-15, 10829 Berlin, Germany Mail: ohlendorf nils hotmail.com Acknowledgements: Nils Ohlendorf acknowledges funding by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Re- search (PEGASOS, funding code 01LA1826C). Meike L ohr (meike.loehr uni-oldenburg.de) acknowledges funding by the German Research Foundation (grant number 316848319) in the context of the Emmy Noether-project Regional energy transitions as a social process (REENEA). Jochen Markard (jmarkard ethz.ch) acknowledges funding from the Norwegian Research Council (Conflicting Transition Pathways for Deep Decarbonization, grant number 295062 E20) and from the Swiss Federal Office of Energy (SWEET program, PATHFNDR consortium). We thank participants and discussants at the International Sustainability Transitions Con- ference (IST 2021), 5th International Conference on Public Policy (ICPP5), the Sustainable Technologies Colloquium at the ETH Z urich, and members of the Climate and Development group at the MCC Berlin for their helpful comments and suggestions. Declaration of Interest: The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal re- lationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Please cite as: Ohlendorf, N., L ohr, M., Markard, J. (2023). Actors in multi-sector transitions- discourse analysis on hydrogen in Germany. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transi- tions, 47, 100692.arXiv:2311.11421v1 eess.SY 19 Nov 2023 Actors in Multi-Sector Transitions - Discourse Analysis on Hydrogen in Germany Abstract: With net-zero emission goals, low-carbon transitions enter a new phase of development, lead- ing to new challenges for policymaking and research. Multiple transitions unfold in parallel across different sectors. This involves a broad range of technologies, while actors engage in in- creasingly complex discourses. Here, we study the discourses on hydrogen in Germany. Based on the analysis of 179 newspaper articles from 2016 to 2020, we find that a diverse set of actors, including many industry incumbents, speak favorably about hydrogen, emphasizing economic opportunities and its relevance for the energy transition, whereas skeptics highlight its low energy efficiency and expected scarcity. With the help of discourse network analysis, we identify three emerging conflicts around the use, production, and import of hydrogen. We explain these conflicts and the widespread support of incumbents with a conceptual frame- work that captures the complex interplay of sectoral contexts, specific technologies and actor interests. Keywords: Hydrogen, Discourse Network Analysis, Multi-Sector Transitions 1. Introduction As more and more countries and businesses are making pledges to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero until mid-century (H ohne et al., 2021), the transition toward low- carbon energy systems is entering a new phase of development. It is not sufficient any more to pursue incremental changes, or to focus on selected sectors, such as electricity or transport. Instead, societies need to cut, or compensate for all greenhouse gas emissions across all sectors. This net-zero phase of the energy transition imposes new challenges. One challenge is the simultaneous involvement of multiple socio-technical systems, or sectors, and various tech- nologies within and across these multiple systems. Another challenge is the large number of actors with different backgrounds and interests. Transitions research has begun to address some of these challenges, highlighting the increasing complexity if transitions comprise mul- tiple sectors or multiple technologies (Papachristos et al., 2013; Rosenbloom, 2020; Andersen and Markard, 2020). Despite some progress, we still lack empirical studies and conceptual frameworks to analyze transitions that involve multiple systems (Rosenbloom, 2020). We address this gap with a study on the emerging field of hydrogen, a research case that is at the heart of the latest phase of the net-zero energy transition (van Renssen, 2020). Hydrogen is currently pushed by policymakers as an alternative energy carrier for a broad range of applications, including difficult-to-decarbonize industries (DDI), such as steel or aviation (Davis et al., 2018). As of 2021, 17 countries have already adopted hydrogen strategies, while another 20 are under development (IEA, 2021a). We select Germany as a leading industrialized country with many large incumbent firms in different industries. The German government actively promotes hydrogen as an essential part of its net-zero strategy. We ask how actors talk about hydrogen, and whether and why they support or oppose to it. We also address how incumbent actors may be affected by the sectoral context they are operating in. We approach these questions by analyzing the discourses on hydrogen in Germany in leading nationwide newspapers. Our analysis starts in 2016 and covers the years leading up to the end of 2020. The final dataset comprises 179 newspaper articles of five newspapers, quotes of 139 actors, and 30 storylines. Discourse analysis (Hajer, 2006) can 3 be a particularly insightful tool for innovations at early stages of development when actors try to create meaning and common understanding, shape categories, or influence policies (Rosenbloom et al., 2016). We also employ discourse network analysis (DNA) (Leifeld, 2017) on a subset of storylines related to three emerging conflicts. We find a widespread, partly even enthusiastic support for hydrogen among incumbent actors, while environmental NGOs and some think tanks adopt more skeptical positions. Considering that incumbents have often resisted transformative change (Hess, 2014; Smink et al., 2015) this might seem surprising at first. Our findings add to more recent studies that add more nuance to the role of incumbents in transitions (Turnheim and Sovacool, 2020). We also identify three specific lines of conflict, namely about in i) which sectors hydrogen should be used, ii) which production methods are desirable, and iii) potential risks and benefits of hydrogen imports. We also contribute by developing a simple conceptual framework to study the involvement
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	Divestment may burst the carbon bubble if investors beliefs tip to anticipating strong future climate policy Birte Ewers,1;2; Jonathan F. Donges,1;3; ; Jobst Heitzig1, Sonja Peterson4 1Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Member of the Leibniz Association, P.O. Box 60 12 03, 14412 Potsdam, Germany 2Department of Economics, University of Kiel, Olshausenstraße 40, 24098 Kiel, Germany 3Stockholm Resilience Centre, Stockholm University, Kr aftriket 2B, 114 19 Stockholm, Sweden 4Kiel Institute for the World Economy, Kiellinie 66, 24105 Kiel, Germany The ﬁrst two authors share the lead authorship. To whom correspondence should be addressed; E-mail: donges pik-potsdam.de February 21, 2019 To achieve the ambitious aims of the Paris climate agreement, the majority of fossil-fuel reserves needs to remain underground. As current national govern- ment commitments to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions are insufﬁcient by far, actors such as institutional and private investors and the social movement on divestment from fossil fuels could play an important role in putting pressure on national governments on the road to decarbonization. Using a stochastic agent-based model of co-evolving ﬁnancial market and investors beliefs about future climate policy on an adaptive social network, here we ﬁnd that the dy- namics of divestment from fossil fuels shows potential for social tipping away from a fossil-fuel based economy. Our results further suggest that socially responsible investors have leverage: a small share of 10 20 of such moral investors is sufﬁcient to initiate the burst of the carbon bubble, consistent with 1arXiv:1902.07481v1 q-fin.GN 20 Feb 2019 the Pareto Principle. These ﬁndings demonstrate that divestment has poten- tial for contributing to decarbonization alongside other social movements and policy instruments, particularly given the credible imminence of strong inter- national climate policy. Our analysis also indicates the possible existence of a carbon bubble with potentially destabilizing effects to the economy. With the Paris climate agreement signed ( 1), the world has made an important step to- wards embarking on rapid decarbonization of global socio-economic systems to mitigate an- thropogenic climate change ( 2) with dangerous impacts on human societies and the biosphere ( 3, 4). However, if all currently proven fossil fuel reserves were to be extracted, the resulting emis- sions alone would sufﬁce to surmount the admissible carbon budget threefold ( 5), amplifying the risk of runaway global warming ( 6, 7). This apparent contradiction to the aim of climate change mitigation increasingly leads investors to see investments in fossil fuel assets as a moral issue, similarly to the divestment movement on investments in South Africa under the Apartheid regime starting in the 1970s ( 8) or the English divestment movement pushing for the abolition of plantation slavery since the 17th century ( 9). The same realization led to the creation of the Fossil Free movement in 2012, urging investors on moral grounds to divest from fossil fuel companies ( 10). To date, more than 1,000 institutions holding approximately 7.93 trn of assets have pledged to completely or partly divest from fossil fuels (Fig. 1, data provided by Fossil Free, a project of 350.org ( 11)), among them notable institutions such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund ( 12). At the same time, awareness of carbon risks, i.e., the risk of shares being devaluated and be- coming stranded assets as fossil resources remain unburned, has been spreading ( 13 15 ). Some believe that a carbon bubble is currently emerging that could burst when investors expectations of carbon risk reach a critical threshold or when strict climate regulation such as carbon taxes and stringent emissions trading systems are enforced ( 16 19 ). It has been proposed that this 2 Time (years AD)A B Share of institution typeTotal portfolio value of institutions committed to divest (Trillion US )Number of institutions committed to divestFigure 1: Growth of institutional commitments to divest from fossil fuels. (A) Total port- folio value of institutions committed to divest (ﬁlled area, right-hand scale) and the number of institutions divesting (black line, left-hand scale) until March 2017. The value refers to the total portfolio value and not to the amount that is actually divested from the fossil fuel sector. The share of fossil fuel stocks in a portfolio, and thus the share to be divested, is typically 5 10 . (B) Composition of the portfolio in share of total value by institution type over time. Data provided by Fossil Free, a project of 350.org. 3 process could contribute to rapid decarbonization of the World s socio-economic systems in accordance with the Paris agreement ( 2, 20 ). Recent analyses and empirical studies support this claim, showing that fossil fuel divestment can prevail over the green paradox ( 19) and is able to mitigate ﬁnancial risks posed by climate change and to reduce the carbon exposure of investment portfolios ( 21, 22 ) Both processes, the moral and the risk-perception-driven divestment, could form a positive feedback leading to a self-organized social tipping dynamics ( 23 25 ) of general investment behavior. And such tipping of social norms and conventions relevant for achieving sustainable development may be supported by parameters that can be inﬂuenced by policy makers ( 26) as has been recently demonstrated by behavioral experiments ( 27) and in a model of social norms and social tipping points related to water conservation ( 28). Model-based analysis of divestment dynamics and social tip- ping points To highlight the driving factors for the divestment movement to trigger the burst of a carbon bubble, and to analyze the thresholds, likelihood and timing of such a scenario, we develop a stochastic agent-based model combining elements from the literature on social dynamics of in- vestors ( 29), complex adaptive social networks ( 30,31 ), and agent-based ﬁnancial markets ( 32). Following ( 33, 34 ), we use agent-based modeling as it allows for accounting for adaptation, bounded rationality and heterogeneity in investment behavior ( 35). The model includes (see Methods for details) (i) a representative public ﬁrm extracting and exploring fossil fuel re- sources, (ii) a stock market where
__label__energy	Identifying Dealbreakers and Robust Policies for the Energy Transition Amid Unexpected Events Diederik Coppittersa, , Gabriel Wiestb, Leonard G okeb,c, Francesco Continoa, Andr e Bardowb, Stefano Moretb aInstitute of Mechanics, Materials and Civil Engineering (iMMC), Universit e catholique de Louvain (UCLouvain), Place du Levant, 2, 1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium bEnergy Process Systems Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Z urich, Switzerland cReliability and Risk Engineering, Institute of Energy and Process Engineering, ETH Z urich, Switzerland Abstract Disruptions in energy imports, backlash in social acceptance, and novel technologies fail- ing to develop are unexpected events that are often overlooked in energy planning, despite their ability to jeopardize the energy transition. We propose a method to explore unex- pected events and assess their impact on the transition pathway of a large-scale whole- energy system. First, we evaluate unexpected events assuming perfect foresight , where decision-makers can anticipate such events in advance. This allows us to identify deal- breakers, i.e., conditions that make the transition infeasible. Then, we assess the events under limited foresight to evaluate the robustness of early-stage decisions against un- foreseen unexpected events and the costs associated with managing them. A case study for Belgium demonstrates that a lack of electrofuel imports in 2050 is the main deal- breaker, while accelerating the deployment of renewables is the most robust policy. Our transferable method can help policymakers identify key dealbreakers and devise robust energy transition policies. Keywords: Whole-energy systems, transition pathways, energy modelling, optimization, uncertainty, unexpected events, myopic decision-making. Corresponding author Email address: diederik.coppitters uclouvain.be (Diederik Coppitters) March 11, 2025arXiv:2503.05735v1 cs.CY 19 Feb 2025 1. Introduction Energy planning models involve numerous inputs that are inherently uncertain, such as technology and resource availability, energy commodity prices, and demand levels 1 . Modellers represent this uncertainty if they consider it at all with probabilities or un- certainty ranges 2 and generate results based on them, following a predict-then-act approach 3 . However, this approach tends to underestimate the full spectrum of pos- sible futures 4 , leading to overconfidence in the selected course of action 5 . This un- derestimation occurs because uncertainty characterizations focus on the ordinary and predictable, and overlook, for instance, unexpected events 6 . Here, we define unex- pected events as events that are largely mispredicted or unpredicted, significantly deviate from expectations, and persist long enough to influence strategic decisions, such as social resistance blocking wind power expansion 7 , a disruption in resource supplies due to geopolitical tensions 8 , or the failed breakthrough of anticipated technologies like nu- clear Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) 9 . Details about the terminology are provided in Supplementary Note 1. Although rare, unexpected events can substantially disrupt the course of action and transform dependencies into vulnerabilities 10 . For instance, if an anticipated resource like green hydrogen falls short, initial investments in hydrogen infrastructure could become obsolete 11 . These unexpected events should, therefore, not be ignored in the decision-making process 2 . Yet, their rarity and the limited data on their likelihood make them unsuitable for conventional risk-informed approaches, as the probability of unexpected events is deemed so negligible that standard uncertainty propagation techniques fail to recognize them as viable scenarios 13 . Therefore, methods are needed to assess the role of unexpected events in energy system planning 14 . Existing studies primarily use Story-and-Simulation (SAS) approaches to assess the vulnerability of energy systems to a specific unexpected event 15, 16 . These assessments lead to proposed mitigation strategies in a specific context, such as adopting integrated energy markets to reduce risks related to supply disruptions 17 or deploying existing low-carbon technologies to avoid reliance on unicorn technologies that may never materi- alize 4 . Although valuable, SAS approaches rely on predefined scenarios 19 , which lim- its their capacity to guide decision-making across a broad spectrum of unexpected-event scenarios 20 . In the context of decision-making across a broad spectrum of scenarios with unknown likelihoods, methodologies from Decision Making under Deep Uncertainty 2 (DMDU) are gaining traction 21 . Unlike traditional predict-then-act approaches, where energy system planners typically agree on assumptions about the input parameter uncer- tainties, DMDU focuses on agreeing on decisions by exploring a variety of possible futures, identifying vulnerabilities, and proposing robust alternatives 22 . Despite its potential, the application of DMDU methods in energy system planning is scarce, applied only for uncertainties within predictable ranges 23 25 , and seemingly unexplored in combination with unexpected events. An additional drawback of existing studies assessing unexpected events in energy sys- tem planning is that nearly all the employed energy system models operate under a perfect foresight approach 2 . This unrealistic approach assumes complete knowledge about the future when optimizing investment decisions, allowing early-stage decisions in the energy transition to be tailored for a specific unexpected event predicted far in advance 26 . Myopic pathway optimization models are better suited for this context, as they enable sequential decision-making with limited foresight 27 . In this more realistic setting, early- stage investment decisions are made without knowledge of an unexpected event that may later arise. Yet, myopic decision-making models are relatively rare 28, 29 , with only a handful applications incorporating SAS-based unexpected event assessments 4, 30 . In this paper, we propose a method to assess unexpected events in energy system planning (Figure 1). The method enables an open exploration of unexpected-event sce- narios and leverages both perfect and myopic foresight to identify the dealbreakers for the energy transition and emphasize the significance of early-stage decisions. Specifically, we examine combinations of the main unexpected events that could jeopardize the transi- tion, including unrealized breakthroughs in unicorn technologies, sharp deteriorations in exchange rates with other economies driving up the cost of imported technologies, geopo- litical tensions disrupting energy imports, and various forms of social resistance: resistance to building renovations, to mobility changes, to the widespread deployment of renewable technologies and to nuclear power. The impact of these unexpected-event scenarios on achieving an energy transition within climate targets at
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__energy	1 ETRI Journal. 2021;0(0):1 11. wileyonlinelibrary.com journal etrij 1 INTRODUCTIO N Air pollution, climate change, and depletion of fossil fuel resources are key societal issues in this century. The transportation and electric power generation industries, which are among the largest consumers of fossil fuels, have voiced these concerns. In the United States, the industrial sector is the largest energy consumer 1 , consum ing 31 of the total energy and accounting for approximately one- third of total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the country 2,3 . In the United Kingdom, households accounted for 39 of the total electricity consumption and 9 of the carbon dioxide (CO 2) emission in 2019 4 . Therefore, households have great potential to realize the net-zero emission goal by implementing solutions like decentralized electricity production at home and reducing electricity use 5 . When considering the photovoltaic (PV) power battery system s storage component, the storage system increases the local generating self -consumption while decreasing power costs, fossil fuel generation , and the strain on the electricity distribution infrastructure 6 . The main reasons why households should embrace renewable energy are economic and environmental benefits 7 . The US government established a goal of reducing energy consumption by 17 , below 2005 levels, by 2020. As a result, technologies that promise to cut GHG emissions ARTICLE TYPE Anomaly Detection of Smart Metering System for Power Management with Battery Storage System Electric Vehicle Sangkeum Lee1 Sarvar Hussain Nengroo2 Hojun Jin2 Yoonmee Doh1 Chungho Lee1 Taewook Heo1 Dongsoo Har 2 1 Environment ICT Research Section , Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI) , South Korea, Daejeon 2 Cho Chun Shik Graduate School of Mobility , Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) , South Korea, Daejeon . Correspondence Dongsoo Har ,Cho Chun Shik Graduate School of Mobility , Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), South Korea, Daejeon . Email: dshar kaist.ac.kr Funding Information This work was supported by the Korea Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation and Planning (KETEP) and the Ministry of Trade, Industry Energy (MOTIE) of the Republic of Korea (No.20191210301580, No. 20192010107290). Abstract A novel smart metering technique capable of anomaly detection was proposed for real - time home power management system. Smart meter data generated in real -time was obtained from 900 households of single apartments. To detect outliers and missing values in smart meter data, a deep learning model, the autoencoder , consisting of a graph convolutional network and bidirectional long short -term memory network, was applied to the smart metering technique. Power management based on the s mart metering technique was performed by multi -objective optimization in the presence of a battery storage system and an electric vehicle. The r esults of the power management employing the proposed smart metering technique indicate a reduction in electrici ty cost and amount of power supplied by the grid compared to the results of power management without anomaly detection. KEYWORDS Apartment energy consumption, power management, GCN -BiLSTM network, smart metering, anomaly detection Sangkeum Lee, Sarvar Hussain Nengro o, and Hojun Jin contributed equally to this work. This is an Open Access article distributed under the term of Korea Open Government License (KOGL) Type 4: Source Indication Commercial Use Prohibition Change Prohibit ion (https: www.kogl.or.kr info license.do 05 -tab). 1225 -6463 2021 ETRI 2 AUTHOR ONE ET AL . while deferring or avoiding large additional investments have piqued public attention. The energy efficiency improvements combined with demand response (DR) are expected to lower the need for new gene ration capacity from 214 to 133 GW in 2030 8 . Additionally, the DR has bee n proposed as a strategy to address supply -demand oscillations in the grid with significant penetration of variable renewable energy sources (RESs) of intermittent nature 9 . With the high penetration of RESs, DR has also been advocated as a solution to control the supply -demand oscillations in the grid 10,11 . Several research findings have provided customers with information in various areas, allowing them to better regulate the amount of electricity used by interruptible, non -interruptible, shiftable, and non - shiftable devices in reaction to the changing pri ce. Human and automatic control systems have been extensively studied to lower the electricity demand of buildings during peak periods 12,13 . The complexity of the power system has been increasing , particularly in the distribution grids, and suitable measurement infrastructure should be deployed 14,15 . To deal with these chall enges and achieve the modernization of the conventional electricity infrastructure, smart metering and control systems that operate based on the interaction between suppliers and consumers are essential. A smart metering infrastructure (SMI) is described a s an electronic system that can measure energy consumption via smart meters (SMs) by providing more diverse information than the existing infrastructure and can send receive the usage detail s directly to from other parties through electronic communication networks. When considering the scope of advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) innovations, SMs have emerged as an incredible asset, particularly for data analytics. Due to its large volume, velocity, and variety, SM data ha ve significantly enhanced the degree of information gathering across dispersed networks and ha ve acquired fame in big data analytics. Furthermore, the large volume of SM data allows optimal real -time monitoring and control of electric utilities to increase reliability and operational efficiency, as well as enhance key performance measurements , including system average interruption duration index and customer average interruption duration index. As the electricity market is based on a cost mandatory pool system in Korea, the fuel cost is considered a significant component. The market price consists of the capacity payment (CP) and system marginal price (SMP). The CP describes the price provided to a generating unit available for a day, and the SMP represents the cost of the most expensive generating unit obtained in the price setting schedule, which minimizes the total operational costs of the generating units. Additionally, it depends on the bidding price of a marginal plant predetermined
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__energy	MOLECULAR DYNAMICS CHARACTERIZATION OF THE INTERFACIAL STRUCTURE AND FORCES OF THE METHANE -ETHANE S IIGAS HYDRATE INTERFACE THIS WORK HAS BEEN SUBMITTED TO BE PEER REVIEWED . ONCE THE REVIEW PROCESS IS COMPLETE ,THE DOI OF THE REVISED AND PUBLISHED VERSION WILL BE ADDED . THIS AUTHOR S VERSION IS SHARED THROUGH A CC BY-NC-ND LICENSE . Samuel Mathews, André Guerra, Phillip Servio, Alejandro Rey Department of Chemical Engineering McGill University Montreal, Quebec, Canada ABSTRACT The nucleation of gas hydrates is of great interest in flow assurance, global energy demand, and carbon capture and storage. A complex molecular understanding is critical to control hydrate nucleation and growth in the context of potential applications. Molecular dynamics is employed in this work combined with the mechanical definition of surface tension to assess the surface stresses that control some of the behavior at the interface. Ensuring careful sampling and simulation behavior, this work extracts meaningful results from molecular properties. We characterize the interfacial tension for sII methane ethane hydrate and gas mixtures for different temperatures and pressures. We find that the surface tension trends positively with temperature in a balance of water-solid and water-gas interactions. The molecular dipole shows the complexities of water molecule behavior in small, compressed pre-melting layer that emerges as a quasi-liquid. These behaviors contribute to the developing knowledge base surrounding practical applications of this interface. Keywords gas hydrates clathrates interfacial tension interfaces lattice dipole molecular dynamicsarXiv:2405.05454v1 physics.app-ph 8 May 2024 PREPRINT 1 Introduction Gas hydrates are clathrates where a backbone composed of water encloses gaseous molecules. The water structure retains its integrity through hydrogen bonding and guest-host interactions between the gas and water Carroll . Formed at low temperatures and high pressures, gas hydrates are commonly found in petroleum extraction and transportation industries Carroll . These structures are presently studied in the context of methane extraction, desalination, flue gas capture, natural gas and hydrogen containment, carbon capture and storage technologies, and planetary ices Koh et al. . With these technologies in mind, the need for critical information on the formation and dissociation of gas hydrates is highlighted. The temperature, pressure, and guest identity are the main considerations governing hydrate formation, nucleation rate, growth rate, formation conditions, and morphology Koh et al. . The three main structures are composed of combinations of large and small cages, with all three sharing a common pentagonal dodecahedron ( 512) cage. The sI unit cell is cubic and composed of 512and51262cages, and is formed by small gaseous molecules such as carbon dioxide, methane, and ethane. The sII unit cell is also cubic and composed of 512and51264cages, and is formed by propane, iso-butane, and natural gas mixtures. The sH unit cell is hexagonal and composed of 512,435663cages, and is formed by different combinations of large and small guests, such as methane and neohexene. Because natural gas is composed mainly of methane and ethane, the most common gas hydrate formed in flow assurance situations is the sII structure Carroll . Considering the sII structure carefully is critical because at lower temperatures, only a small amount of ethane is required to favor it over the sI structure - at 273.15 Kelvin, some predictions show only 0.3 mole percent of ethane is required to stabilize sII. Therefore, many hydrates that are believed to be sI may actually be sII hydrates. There still exist many questions and unknowns on how gas hydrates form, what substances promote or inhibit their formation, what additives are best suited to induce their dissociation, and what exactly is happening at a molecular level during these processes. Hydrates form and grow through various pathways, including as multiple crystals in agitated systems, as single crystals, and as films. Typically, the nucleation starts at the gas water interfaces and continue along the surface at a molecular scale, proving difficult to observe experimentally Carroll . As the growth starts and continues, various behaviors are seen, including dendritic growth, shell formation, and other nanoscale structural dynamics Mirzaeifard et al., a,b . These dictate the ideal location and pathway for gas hydrate formation, highlighting the need for accurate characterization of the molecular behaviors. The molecular behaviors at the interface are key features in area that are concerned with nucleation, phase transitions, solubilization of fluids, the design of surface-controlled materials such as soaps and adhesives, and the study complex hydrogen bonding systems in cell biology Carroll . The main drivers of the formation mechanisms are the driving forces and interfacial energy, but thorough atomic characterization of the processes remains incomplete Blas et al. . The speed and size of the dynamics of systems at this scale give rise to challenges that can restrict experimental methods. For example, in the study of protein hydration, traditional structural description methods are not suitable at the interface due to breaking of the translational and rotational symmetry preservation Shi . 2 PREPRINT Therefore, the use of computational materials science techniques such as molecular dynamics (MD) have given researchers opportunities to glimpse into the nucleation process and understand the molecular behaviors Mirzaeifard et al., c . The motivation of this computational work is to qualify the interfacial tension of methane-ethane sII gas hydrates in the presence of natural gas and reveal the important structures and physics in these systems. This type of vapor solid system has been studied for other structures in the context of characterizing nanobubbles and interfacial gas enrichment. The behavior of this layer is critical to the bubble s stability and is responsible for many phenomena in atmospheric chemistry, the motion of glaciers, and even the microstructure of snow Koh et al., Guerra et al., a . The organization of this paper is as follows. In the methodology, the general computational details will be presented, followed by a description of the MD and numerical techniques used to calculate the various systems and surface properties. Then, the results are presented, including experimental and theoretical data for validation and discussion of the results. We calculate and analyze the surface tension of the hydrate-gas system, characterize the
__label__energy	Secondary control activation analysed and predicted with explainable AI Johannes Kruse yx, Benjamin Schäferz , Dirk Witthaut y Institute for Energy and Climate Research - Systems Analysis and Technology Evaluation (IEK-STE), Forschungszentrum Jülich, 52428 Jülich, Germany yInstitute for Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne, 50937 Köln, Germany zSchool of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, London E1 4NS, United Kingdom Faculty of Science and Technology, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, Norway xEmail: jo.kruse fz-juelich.de Abstract The transition to a renewable energy system poses challenges for power grid operation and stability. Secondary control is key in restoring the power system to its reference following a disturbance. Underestimating the necessary control capacity may require emergency measures, such as load shed- ding. Hence, a solid understanding of the emerging risks and the driving factors of control is needed. In this contribution, we establish an explainable machine learning model for the activation of secondary control power in Germany. Training gradient boosted trees, we obtain an accurate description of control activation. Using SHapely Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values, we investigate the dependency between control activation and external features such as the generation mix, forecasting errors, and electricity market data. Thereby, our analysis reveals drivers that lead to high reserve requirements in the German power system. Our transparent approach, utilizing open data and making machine learning models interpretable, opens new scientiﬁc discovery avenues. Index Terms power grid, frequency, control, data-driven, explainable AI, machine learning I. I NTRODUCTION Balancing and control is central for the stable operation of power systems. Secondary control is one of three measures that are typically installed to enforce the balance between power supply and demand 1 . While primary control acts within a few seconds after a disturbance and stabilises the frequency, secondary control activates fully after a few minutes and restores the frequency back to its reference value. Secondary control, also known as automatic Frequency Restoration Re- serve (aFRR) in Continental Europe, activates automatically according to the local power mismatch of the control area. Meanwhile, a lack of control reserves requires costly emer- gency measures such as load shedding. For an appropriate reserve sizing and optimal control design we thus need a precise modelling and a good understanding of the required aFRR volumes. Furthermore, predicting future aFRR volumes can be helpful for trading and bidding strategies. We gratefully acknowledge support from the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF grant no. 03EK3055B) and the Helmholtz Association via the Helmholtz School for Data Science in Life, Earth and Energy (HDS-LEE). This project has received funding from the European Union s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No. 840825.Data-driven models have already proven to be excellent candidates for modelling and predicting aFRR. In the past years, power system data has become increasingly publicly available, thus enabling transparent data-driven analysis and prediction 2 , 3 . Koch et al. have used multiple regression and data analysis to disentangle the German paradox of increasing renewable penetration and decreasing imbalance volumes 4 . Similarly, ref. 5 applies a data-driven analysis to examine the impact of 15 min intra-day trading on imbalances and control volumes in Germany. Apart from ex-post analysis, data-driven prediction methods have been developed for the aFRR market to allow for optimal bidding strategies 6 . From the perspective of Transmission system operators (TSOs), data-driven prediction methods have been used to optimise the dimensioning of aFRR capacities based on historic data 7 . While simple probabilistic methods use parametric models to estimate the probabilities of power imbalances, more advanced methods apply Machine Learning to predict system imbalances from external features 8 . In this context, Artiﬁcial Neural Networks 9 , (non-parametric) kernel density estimation and k-means clustering 10 and LASSO 11 have been applied to predict aFRR volumes. However, complex Machine learning models are often hard to interpret and their black-box character impedes their application in security-relevant areas such as power system control 12 . Here, we present an explainable ML model for aFRR to enhance the value of Machine Learning for power system operation and control. Using publicly available data 13 , 14 , we build an ML model for the ex-post analysis of historic data as well as a day-ahead predictor. We interpret the model with SHapely Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values 15 , which enable rich explanations of ex-post models as well as transparent day-ahead predictors. As our case study, we focus on the German aFRR and demonstrate how loss functions and data sets have to be adapted for either use case. Our publicly available data set 16 comprises two years of 15min resolved data with 85 features from the German and European power system as well as the corresponding aFRR volumes. We start in Section II by describing our data collection and pre-processing procedure as well as the Machine LearningarXiv:2109.04802v1 eess.SY 10 Sep 2021 model. In Section III, we apply our model for an ex-post analysis of dependencies and important features in the German aFRR system. In Section IV, we switch to the day-ahead prediction of aFRR volumes and demonstrate the impact of different loss functions and feature sets, before closing with a discussion in Section V. II. M ETHODS A. Frequency restoration reserve: Markets and data The design of balancing markets determines the procure- ment and activation of control power. In Germany, the TSOs procure their aFRR demand through an anonymous auc- tion 6 , 14 . First, suppliers of aFRR have to fulﬁl pre- qualiﬁcation criteria such as a minimum activation speed to participate in the auction. As of September 2020, hydro- and gas-driven power plants represent the largest part (75 ) of the prequaliﬁed aFRR capacity 17 . Second, the TSOs tender a demand for the required reserve capacity and energy, which is done for all four German TSOs together (grid control cooper- ation). Then, prequaliﬁed parties can sell reserve capacity (in MW) on the capacity market, which they must hold available. In addition, a supplier can omit this step
__label__energy	Frequency and duration of low-wind-power events in Germany Nils Ohlendorfa, Wolf-Peter Schillb,c, aMercator Research Institute on Global Commons and Climate Change (MCC), EUREF Campus 19, Torgauer Strae 12-15, 10829 Berlin, Germany bGerman Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin), Mohrenstrasse 58, 10117 Berlin, Germany cEnergy Transition Hub, Climate Energy College, The University of Melbourne Abstract In the transition to a renewable energy system, the occurrence of low-wind- power events receives increasing attention. We analyze the frequency and du- ration of such events for onshore wind power in Germany, based on 40 years of reanalysis data and open software. We nd that low-wind-power events are less frequent in winter than in summer, but the maximum duration is distributed more evenly between months. While short events are frequent, very long events are much rarer. Every year, a period of around ve consecutive days with an average wind capacity factor below 10 occurs, and every ten years a respective period of nearly eight days. These durations decrease if only winter months are considered. The longest event in the data lasts nearly ten days. We conclude that public concerns about low-wind-power events in winter may be overrated, but recommend that modeling studies consider multiple weather years to prop- erly account for such events. Keywords: Wind power; Low-wind-power events; Reanalysis data; Corresponding author Email addresses: ohlendorf mcc-berlin.net (Nils Ohlendorf), wschill diw.de (Wolf-Peter Schill) Preprint submitted to arXiv March 1, 2022arXiv:2003.04133v2 physics.soc-ph 3 May 2020 1. Introduction The Paris Agreement calls for an extensive decarbonization of the global economy. A major strategy for achieving this goal is a massive expansion of variable renewable energy sources, in particular solar photovoltaics (PV) and wind power (de Coninck et al., 2018). While power generation from solar PV largely follows diurnal and seasonal cycles with annually repeating patterns, wind power is subject to more irregular inter-annual as well as intra-annual variations which are relevant from a security of supply perspective. In countries with growing shares of wind power, the occurrence of low-wind-power (LWP) events thus receives increasing attention. This is particularly true in Germany. In the context of its energy transition, Germany is one of the global front-runners in wind power deployment. In 2018, a total capacity of 52.5 GW of onshore wind power was installed in Germany, generating 90.5 TWh of electricity. This corresponds to 15 of German gross electricity consumption (BMWi, 2019). Given the governments targets to ex- pand the share of renewables in electricity consumption to 65 by 2030 and at least 80 by 2050 (Bundesregierung, 2019), the dependence of the German energy system on wind power is set to increase strongly in the future. Concerns about LWP events have been discussed in German media (Wetzel, 2017, 2019) and in the German parliament (Deutscher Bundestag, 2019a), and LWP events are also mentioned in the government s energy transition reporting (Deutscher Bundestag, 2019b). In this context, the term Dunkel aute is increasingly used. It refers to a persistent situation with very low power generation from wind and solar PV, which would be especially challenging in the German winter sea- son where PV availability is low and electric load has its peak. Yet no clear de nition of this concept has been provided so far (Wissenschaftliche Dienste, 2019), and quantitative evidence on the frequency and duration of such events is missing. In Table 15 of Deutscher Bundestag (2019b), an independent expert commission generally assumes a no-wind-no-solar period of two weeks. Yet research on LWP events is sparse so far. In this paper, we contribute 2 to lling this gap, focusing on onshore wind power in Germany. We provide an in-depth analysis of the frequency, duration, and magnitude of LWP events, making use of reanalysis data for 40 full years (1980 to 2019) and power curves of recently installed wind turbines. In doing so, we propose two de nitions of LWP events and investigate three di erent thresholds of capacity factors (2 , 5 and 10 ). We also compare the spatial distributions of the most persistent LWP event and the mean electricity generation. Parts of our analysis explicitly focus on winter months: these are particularly relevant, as power generation from solar PV is relatively low during this season, while the German peak load also occurs in winter. In order to allow for the highest degree of transparency and reproducibility, we provide the source code of our analysis under a permissive open-source license (Ohlendorf, 2020). There are only few dedicated analyses on the frequency and duration of LWP events. Early contributions address reliability aspects of spatially dis- persed wind power in California (Kahn, 1979) or in the midwestern United States (Archer and Jacobson, 2007). Analyses explicitly focusing on LWP events only recently emerged. Yet these di er from our work, amongst other factors, with respect to geographical and temporal coverage, data sources used, and methodologies applied. In particular, previous low-wind analyses mostly draw on local measurement data and either evaluate wind speeds (Leahy and McK- eogh, 2013; Patlakas et al., 2017) or wind power (Handschy et al., 2017; Kruyt et al., 2017). Leahy and McKeogh (2013) and Patlakas et al. (2017) investigate low-wind events for Ireland and the North Sea area, respectively. Both studies rstly evaluate low-wind events that are constantly below a given wind speed threshold, and secondly determine annual minimum moving average wind speeds for given durations, using extreme value distributions. Kruyt et al. (2017) and Handschy et al. (2017) go one step further and calculate respective power gen- eration from wind speeds for Switzerland and the United States, using a power curve. While the ndings of these studies are necessarily idiosyncratic to the spe- ci c geographical applications, some common ndings emerge. First, low-wind events are less frequent and less persistent if more, and spatially more dispersed, 3 measurement stations are used. Second, there are generally less events in winter than in summer. The measurement-based analyses face challenges related to their data sources. In general, studies that draw on measured wind speeds are spatially biased, have low measurement
__label__energy	A diss POW E sertation s DEP INDWER EXPA submitted M PARTM E DIAN IN SR SYS ANSIO in partia l of t MASTER O POW SOH 20 Unde r PRO F ENT OF E STITUT E M STEM ON P l fulfillme n the Degre OF TEC H in WER SYS T by HOM D A 009EES3 0 r the Guid a F. P. R. B ELECTR I E OF TE C MAY 201 M RES LAN nt of the r e e of HNOLO G TEMS ATTA 013 ance of BIJWE ICAL E N CHNOL O 1 SOUR NIN G equireme n GY NGINEE R OGY DE LRCE G nt for the a RING LHI award iv CONTENTS Certificate ... .i Acknowledgement ... . ii Abstract ..............iii Contents ... ..............iv List of Figures. .. . ...............vi List of Tables..... . ... ...vii 1. INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................... 1 1.1 GENERAL ................................................................................................................. 1 1.2 LITERATURE SURVEY .......................................................................................... 5 1.3 MOTIVATION ......................................................................................................... 9 1.4 OUTLINE OF REPORT ......................................................................................... 10 2. T RANSMISSION CONSTRAINED GENERATION EXPANSION PLANNING ...13 2.1 INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 13 2.2 PROBLEM FORMULATION ............................................................................... 14 2.3 THEORETICAL BACKGROUND ........................................................................ 18 2.4 SOLUTION METHODOLOGY ...................................................................................... 20 2.5 RESULTS ................................................................................................................ 21 2.5.1 IEEE 24 Bus System ........................................................................................ 21 2.6 CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................... 29 3. COMPOSITE GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION NETWORK EXPANSION PLANNING .. 31 3.1 INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 31 3.2 PROBLEM FORMULATION ............................................................................... 32 3.3 SOLUTION METHODOLOGY ...................................................................................... 35 3.4 RESULTS ................................................................................................................ 37 3.4.1 IEEE 24 Bus RTS ............................................................................................. 37 3.4.2 Static Problem .................................................................................................. 40 3.5.2 Dynamic Problem ............................................................................................ 42 3.6 CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................... 45 4. TRANSMISSION NETWORK EXPANSION PLANNING (TNEP) USING AC MODEL ......... 47 4.1 INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 47 4.2 PROBLEM FORMULATION ............................................................................... 49 4.3 SOLUTION METHODOLOGY ...................................................................................... 51 4.4 RESULTS ................................................................................................................ 53 4.6 CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................... 60 5. COMPOSITE TRANSMISSION NETWORK EXPANSION PLANNING (TNEP) AND REACTIVE POWER EXPANSION PLANNING (RPP) ........................................................ 61 5.1 INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 61 5.2 PROBLEM FORMULATION ............................................................................... 63 5.3 SOLUTION METHODOLOGY ...................................................................................... 67 v 5.4 RESULTS ................................................................................................................ 69 5.6 CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................... 74 6. TRANSMISSION NETWORK PLANNING USING INTERIOR -POINT METHOD ................. 75 6.1 INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 75 6.2 PROBLEM FORMULATION ............................................................................... 76 6.3 SOLUTION METHODOLOGY ...................................................................................... 77 6.4 DISCUSSION ......................................................................................................... 84 7. CONCLUSION AND SCOPE OF FUTURE WORK ............................................................. 85 7.1 CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................... 85 7.2 SCOPE OF FUTURE WORK ................................................................................ 86 References ... ..........87 Appendix I... ... .....91 Appendix II . ... .. 92 Appendix III . . ... .. 95 Appendix IV . . ... .. 96 vi LIST OF FIGURES Fig 2.1 Maximization of Fitness Function (TC GEP)................... ................................. (23) Fig 2.2 Minimization of Objective Function (TC GEP) ............... ................................. (23) Fig 2.3 Maximization of Fitness Function (Unconstrained GEP) ................................. (26) Fig 2.4 Minimization of Objective Function (Unconstrained GEP) ............................... (26) Fig. 2.5 Line Flow Limits (pu) with TC GEP and simple GEP .... ................................. (28) Fig 3.1 Maximization of Fitness Function TNEP GEP Dynamic) ................................. (44) Fig 3.2 Minimization of Objective function TNEP GEP Dynamic ................................ (44) Fig 4.1 Maximization of Fitness Function for TNEP AC model without Security Constraints .................................................................................... ............................. .... (56) Fig 4.2 Minimization of total investment cost for TNEP AC model without Security Constraints .................................................................................... ............................. .... (56) Fig 4.3 Maximization of Fitness Function for TNEP AC model with Security Constraints .. .................................................................................................... ..................... ............ (58) Fig 5.1 Flow chart for composite TNEP RPP ............................... ................................. (62) Fig 5.2 Garver s 6 bus system be fore ACTNEP ........................... ................................. (69) Fig 6.1 Sigmoid Function for IP TNEP ........................................ ................................. (76) Fig A1.1 One line diagram of modified IEEE 24 bus RTS .......... ................................. (91) Fig A3.1 One line Diagram of Garver s 6 bus Test System ......... ................................. (95) vii LIST OF TABLES Table 2.1 Genetic Algorithm Parameters ...................................... ................................. (20) Table 2.2 Technical and Economic Data of the Existing Plants ... ................................. (21) Table 2.3 Forecasted Peak Demand ......................................... ................................. (22) Table 2.4 Technical and Economic Data of the Candidate Plants ......................... (22) Table 2.5 Stage-wise capacity additi on of new units of candidate plants ........... (24) Table 2.6 Generation and Reserves at Each Stage ................. ................................. (24) Table 2.7 Line Flows in the System afte r planning using TC GEP and simple GEP .. .................................................................................................... ................................. (27) Table 2.8 Stage-wise capacity additi on of new units of candidate plants ........... (25) Table 2.9 Generation and Reserves at Each Stage ................. ................................. (25) Table 3.1 Genetic Algorithm Parameters ................................ ................................. (36) Table 3.2 Technical and Economic Data of the Existing Plants ............................. (37) Table 3.3 Technical and Economic Data of the Candidate Plants ......................... (38) Table 3.4 Technical and Economic Data of the Candidate Plants ......................... (39) Table 3.5-3.6: Capacity addition of new units of candidate generators and transmission lines (com posite static)....................................... ................................. (40) Table 3.7-3.8: Capacity addition of new units of candidate generators and transmission lines (sep arate static) .......................................... ................................. (41) Table 3.9 Stage-wise capacity addition of new units of candidate plants (composite dynmaic) ................................................................. ................................. (42) Table 3.10 Stage-wise capacity addition of new Transmission Lines (composite dynmaic) ...................................................................................... ................................. (43) viii Table 3.11 Generation an d Reserves at Each Stage (composite dynamic) ....... (43) Table 4.1 Genetic Algorithm Parameters ................................ ................................. (51) Table 4.2 Load Scenarios ........................................................... ................................. (52) Table 4.3 Technical and Economic Data of the candidate lines ............................. (53) Table 4.4 Addition of lines for the given load scenarios and pf 0.9 for Garver s 6 bus system by AC TNEP with out security constraints ........ ................................. (54) Table 4.5 AC Load flow results after AC TNEP without Security Constraints .. (55) Table 4.6 Line flows after AC TNEP without Security Constraints ...................... (55) Table 4.7 Addition of lines for the given load scenarios and pf 0.9 for Garver s 6 bus system by AC TNEP with security constraints .............. ................................. (57) Table 4.8 AC Load flow results after AC TNEP with Security Constraints ........ (58) Table 4.9 Line flows after AC TN EP with Security Constraints ........................... (59) Table 5.1 Particle swarm Optimization Parameters .............. ................................. (67) Table 5.2 Genetic Algorithm Parameters ................................ ................................. (68) Table 5.3 Load Scenarios
__label__energy	Probabilistic energy forecasting through quantile regression in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces Luca Pernigo luca.pernigo usi.ch Euler Institute, USI Lugano, SwitzerlandRohan Sen rohan.sen usi.ch Euler Institute, USI Lugano, SwitzerlandDavide Baroli davide.baroli usi.ch Euler Institute, USI Lugano, Switzerland ABSTRACT Accurate energy demand forecasting is crucial for sustainable and resilient energy development. To meet the Net Zero Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) 4.5scenario in the DACH countries, increased renewable energy production, energy storage, and re- duced commercial building consumption are needed. This scenario s success depends on hydroelectric capacity and climatic factors. In- formed decisions require quantifying uncertainty in forecasts. This study explores a nonparametric method based on reproducing ker- nel Hilbert spaces (RKHS) , known as kernel quantile regression, for energy prediction. Our experiments demonstrate its reliability and sharpness, and we benchmark it against state-of-the-art methods in load and price forecasting for the DACH region. We offer our implementation in conjunction with additional scripts to ensure the reproducibility of our research. CCS CONCEPTS Mathematics of computing Nonparametric statistics ; Computing methodologies Feature selection ; Software and its engineering Software libraries and repositories . KEYWORDS Kernel method, quantile regression, energy forecast, probabilistic forecast, climate, GEFCom, SP2050, DACH ACM Reference Format: Luca Pernigo, Rohan Sen, and Davide Baroli. 2024. Probabilistic energy forecasting through quantile regression in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. In.ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https: doi.org 10.1145 nnnnnnn. nnnnnnn 1 INTRODUCTION Climate shock and the penetration of renewable energy sources are pivotal issues in the modern energy system, particularly in the DACH region (comprising Germany, Austria, and Switzerland). Recently, the Swiss Federal Office of Energy has published a compre- hensive analysis to assess how to secure and produce a cost-efficient energy supply in Swiss Energy Strategy 2050 and Energy Perspec- tives 2050 . Recently, Switzerland also adopted the long-term goal Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and or a fee. Request permissions from permissions acm.org. Conference 17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 2024 Copyright held by the owner author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x YY MM https: doi.org 10.1145 nnnnnnn.nnnnnnnof climate neutrality, aiming to decrease its energy-building con- sumption and deploy more renewable energy technologies. In addi- tion to being essential to mitigate climate change, the performance of renewable energy sources and the demand for building energy depend on weather data and energy storage. Within the SURE SWEET energy initiative, supported by the SFOE, the development of future sustainable and robust systems is corroborated by techno-economic models that predict long-term scenarios and pathways, which are resilient to climate shocks Panos et al .2023 . These models require a large amount of technical and economic data and their quality influences the reliability of the results, for example, bottom-up techno-economics model Kannan 2018 , which provides hourly prediction, EXPANSE Trutnevyte 2013 , building stock model Nägeli et al .2020 , macro-economics GEM-3M and life cycle assessment Luh et al .2023 . The projec- tion of these models is affected by weather data. For example, the Swiss building stock model designs decarbonisation pathways for different buildings archetypes, whose isolation and heating perfor- mance vary with external temperature. As a result, the prediction of hourly loads by transmission system operators is influenced by the variability and uncertainty of climate factors and is dependent on many parameters of the techno-economics models. In particular, the pathways predicted by SURE models to achieve the Swiss net-zero scenario in conjunction with the RCP pathway 4.5address the primary issue of reliable energy supply. This is es- sential because it requires an increase in renewable energy sources to meet annual net electricity demand of 80 100TWh by 2050 , compared to the current 60TWh SFOE 2022b. One of the factors of such an increase in electricity due to sustainable mobility is up to 22 TWh Kannan et al .2022 . To guarantee uninterrupted en- ergy supply, even under extreme weather conditions Ho-Tran and Fiedler 2024 , in SFOE 2022a various scenarios have been examined: dependence on importing electricity from the European market and expansion of technologies that can provide or save electricity in winter, for example wind, alpine photovoltaic, seasonal heat storage or nuclear power. In such energy scenarios, forecasting models are needed to pro- vide reliable energy management and probabilistic projections of socio-economical energy technologies Zielonka et al .2023 . In addition, these models serve as a decision support tool for the trans- mission system operator (TSO), such as SwisseGrid, to determine the balance of reserves Abbaspourtorbati and Zima 2016 and for policy-makers to develop a transition to sustainable energy sources. Due to the challenges described above, this work aims to investigate probabilistic forecasting to assess the uncertainty of energy supply ACM SIGENERGY Energy Informatics Review Volume 4 Issue 4, October 2024arXiv:2408.04405v3 cs.LG 16 Sep 2024 due to fluctuations in hydroelectric capacity at day frequency, me- teorological, and the intermittency of renewable energy sources at high temporal frequency, i.e., at hour resolution. In electricity forecasting state-of-the-art research, the focus has been mostly on point-forecast methods, that is, methods that output a single value for each target timestamp. Point forecasts are usually assessed using well-known criteria such as the root mean squared error (RMSE) and the mean absolute error (MAE) . Lately, the elec- tricity forecasting community is shifting towards the probabilistic forecasting framework. The advantage of these methods is that they are more informative than a single-point prediction. Gneiting et al . 2007 introduces how to assess the quality of probabilistic forecasts by maximizing the sharpness of prediction distributions under cali- bration constraints. Calibration refers to
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Elastic Properties of Con ned Fluids from Molecular Modeling to Ultrasonic Experiments on Porous Solids Christopher D. Dobrzanski,1Boris Gurevich,2and Gennady Y. Gor1, 1Otto H. York Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, 323 Dr Martin Luther King Jr Blvd, Newark, NJ 07102, USA 2Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, Australia (Dated: 27 May 2021) Fluids con ned in nanopores are ubiquitous in nature and technology. In recent years, the interest in con ned uids has grown, driven by research on unconventional hydrocarbon resources shale gas and shale oil, much of which are con ned in nanopores. When uids are con ned in nanopores, many of their properties di er from those of the same uid in the bulk. These properties include density, freezing point, transport coe cients, thermal expansion coe cient, and elastic properties. The elastic moduli of a uid con ned in the pores contribute to the overall elasticity of the uid-saturated porous medium and determine the speed at which elastic waves traverse through the medium. Wave propagation in uid-saturated porous media is pivotal for geophysics, as elastic waves are used for characterization of formations and rock samples. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review of experimental works on wave propagation in uid-saturated nanoporous media, as well as theoretical works focused on calculation of compressibility of uids in con nement. We discuss models that bridge the gap between experiments and theory, revealing a number of open questions that are both fundamental and applied in nature. While some results were demonstrated both experimentally and theoretically (e.g. the pressure dependence of compressibility of uids), others were theoretically predicted, but not veri ed in experiments (e.g. linear scaling of modulus with the pore size). Therefore, there is a demand for the combined experimental-modeling studies on porous samples with various characteristic pore sizes. The extension of molecular simulation studies from simple model uids to the more complex molecular uids is another open area of practical interest. This preprint is the draft version of the review article: C. D. Dobrzanski, B. Gurevich, G. Y. Gor Appl. Phys. Rev. 8, 021317 (2021); The nal version is available at: https: doi.org 10.1063 5.0024114 CONTENTS I. Introduction 2 II. Theoretical Predictions 2 A. Fluid Compressibility from an Adsorption Isotherm 3 B. Compressibility from Monte Carlo and Molecular Dynamics Simulations 4 C. Pressure-Modulus Relation 5 D. Local Elastic Properties 6 E. Compressibility from Equations of State for Con ned Fluids 8 III. Experimental Measurements 9 A. Relating Elastic Properties of Porous Media to the Properties of Con ned Phases 9 B. Coupled Adsorption-Ultrasonic Measurements 10 C. Probing the Elastic Properties of Con ned Fluids 11 Corresponding author, e-mail: gor njit.edu; URL: http: porousmaterials.netD. Relation between the Ultrasonic Measurements and Adsorption-Induced Deformation 13 E. Freezing in the Nanopores and Shear Modulus of Con ned Phases 15 F. Applicability of Gassmann Theory for Nanoporous Media 16 IV. Relating Experiment and Theory 16 V. Summary and Outlook 18 Acknowledgments 19 Data Availability Statement 20 References 20arXiv:2111.06914v1 cond-mat.soft 12 Nov 2021 2 I. INTRODUCTION Nanoporous materials, according to the IUPAC con- vention, are materials that have pore sizes below 100 nm 1 . Due to having such small pores and large surface areas, these materials are employed for many industrial applications including catalysis 2 , separation processes 3 , as adsorbents 4 or desiccants 5 , as electrodes in energy storage 6 , and for methane storage 7 . Many of these processes focus on a speci c desired e ect on the uids which are con ned within the pores. Some geolog- ical materials, such as coal and shale are nanoporous and contain uids within their pores 8 10 . This spatial con- nement and the interactions between the solid and uid are known to induce changes to the solid structure of the nanoporous materials 11 as well as to the properties of the uids con ned within the nanopores 12 . Changes of uid properties due to con nement are widely discussed in the literature, they include density, melting point, dif- fusivity 12 14 . The derivative thermodynamic proper- ties, such as the thermal expansion coe cient 15 17 , are also altered by con nement, but have received much less attention. Derivative thermodynamic properties in- clude the compressibility, which is the reciprocal to the bulk elastic modulus. This review focuses on the e ects that con nement has on compressibility and other elastic properties. Elastic properties such as the bulk modulus, longitudi- nal modulus, and shear modulus are fundamental prop- erties of a material and describe how a material responds to various mechanical loads. Knowledge of the elastic properties of con ned uids is important for probing the behavior and e ectiveness of the uids in various prac- tical applications including high-pressure lubricants 18 . Furthermore, the elastic moduli of a material also deter- mine the speed at which elastic waves travel through the material. The quantitative understanding of elastic wave propagation in various media is of utmost importance for geophysics: seismic (tens of meters scale wavelength) and borehole-based sonic (cm-to-m scale) waves are used to characterize geological formations in situ , and ultra- sonic waves ( m-to-mm) are employed to characterize rock samples in the laboratory 19 . Since most geolog- ical media are porous, and the pores are saturated with uids (gas, water, brine, hydrocarbons, etc.), the elastic wave speed is controlled by the elastic moduli of both the solid and uid components. If pores are macroscopic, the properties of the uid in these pores are the same as in the bulk, but this is not necessarily true for uids con ned in nanopores. Unconventional hydrocarbon resources such as shale gas and shale oil are contained in the media that have substantial amount of nanopores 8 10 . Thus, the recent progress in development of those resources moti- vates research in nanoporous media and con ned uids. Note that we are concerned exclusively with elastic prop- erties of the con ned uids and
__label__energy	1 Unit Commitment Considering the Impact of Deep Cycling HyungSeon Oh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, United State Naval Academy, Annapolis MD 20401 Email: hoh usna.edu Abstract Wind energy has been integrated into the power system with the hope that it improves the energy efficiency and decreases greenhouse gas emission. However, several studies over the world imply that the result was in the opposite way that was hoped mainly because of the negative correlation between wind availability and load. Under the situation, coal power plants are forced to cycle while they are not designed to do so. To prevent this unwanted result from occurring, a unit commitment decision should include the use of fuel and the emission rate during the ramp up down process. This paper proposes a new unit commitment decision process to accommodate the economic and the environmental costs associated with the ramping process. The costs are, in general, not convex because there is positive cost if a generator output changes significantly regardless of directions. As a result, the problem might be nonconvex. A piece-wise linear cost curve is introduced to model the impact of ramping processes. With the curve, a convex linear programming is formulated, and the impact of a governmental policy is discussed. Index Terms Mixed integer linear programming, ramp rate, unit commitment problem I. NOMENCLATURE Bbranch Branch impedance matrix Bbus Bus impedance matrix GA Set of generators with high ramp rates GB Set of generators with low ramp rates H PTDF matrix with cardinality of L-by-N K- Diagonal matrix with minimum generation K Diagonal matrix with maximum generation L Number of lines in a transmission network LGA Location matrix of generators in GA LGB Location matrix of generators in GB LL Location matrix of storage devices Lg Matrix indicating the location of generators with the cardinality of Ng-by-N 2 N Number of buses in a transmission network NC Diagonal matrix with no-load cost Ng Number of generators R Maximum ramp rate vector RU Combined cost vector of the impact on the environmental and the life time of the generator during its ramp up process RD Combined cost vector of the impact on the environmental and the life time of the generator during its ramp down process SP Diagonal matrix with maximum spinning reserve SU Diagonal matrix with start-up cost dt Expected load at time t diag(x) Diagonal matrix with the diagonal elements of x ej jth unit vector g Power generation vector with the cardinality of Ng-by-1 Ω Hourly recovery factor of the construction cost for a storage device α Ramp up variable β Ramp down variable δt,j Energy stored in the storage device j at time t εC Charging efficiency of a storage devoice εD Discharging efficiency of a storage device κ Ratio of economic minimum to the maximum generation of the unit of interest ρ Spinning reserve margin γ Charging variable of a storage device q N-by-1 voltage angle vector τ time for ramping up down τhi Minimum down-time of generator i τsi Minimum up-time of generator i ν Discharging variables of a storage device ξ Energy rating of storage devices ψ Power rating of storage devices II. INTRODUCTION Recent ten years or so time, the concern of global warming has been raised. In the effort to reduce the greenhouse gas, many wind farms have been constructed in many countries. Beside the low emission rates, they would bring the 3 electricity price down due to their low operation costs. However, recent studies have shown that the greenhouse gas emission increases and that the system cost increases 1 , 2 . In some circumstances, the negative price bidding on the purpose of getting dispatched by renewable sources for tax credits may increase power system emissions 3 . A most important reason is that the availability of wind does not positively correlate with demand 4 , 5 . For example, early in the morning, load is low while wind resource is abundant, and the situation becomes reversed around noon. Different from wind resources, solar energy tends to be positively correlated to the loads, and therefore the integration of wind energy may not result in the dispatch changes of coal power if the solar or other energy resources mitigate the impact of the wind energy. One way to mitigate the impact of the negative correlation would be to integrate storage devices 6 , showing the reduction of emissions as power systems increase the generation portfolios of low- and no-carbon generation sources 7 . An objective of the steady-state operation of power systems is to fulfill the loads continuously regardless of the temporal variation of loads and generation. A unit commitment problem (UCP) is an optimization that includes multi-period optimal power flow with start-up and shut-down options of multiple generators, which are binary variables. Due to the large scale of power systems, a conventional UCP includes a linear optimal power flow. Therefore, the UCP is classified as a mixed integer linear programming. In UCP, an hourly schedule of which generators are on is determined to meet load in a lowest cost. During a peak period, a high level of generation is required to meet the load, and therefore, many generators are committed. Some generators must be ready ahead of dispatch time due to their long minimum-down-time and or long maximum-ramp-rates 8 . It is possible to ramp up at its maximum ramp rate starting from an uneconomic operation point for coal power plants, but such an operation leaves an negative impacts on the generators life time dynamic impact 5 . Since ramping under a certain generation level of coal power plants has a significant emission and economic impact, it is difficult to incorporate the impacts in a conventional UCP. Any change in dispatches between two periods of a generator is allowed with no penalty as long as feasible. For the operation with only conventional generators, the temporal changes in loads is slowly varying and therefore the dynamic impacts are not imposed frequently. The high penetration level
__label__energy	1 Coordination of Interdependent Natural Gas and Electricity Systems Based on Information Gap Decision Theory Farnaz Sohrabi 1, Farkhondeh Jabari 1, Behnam Mohammadi -Ivatloo 1 , Alireza Soroudi 2 1 Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering , University of Tabriz , 29 Bahman Blvd. , Tabriz, Iran 2 Energy Institute, University College Dublin , Dublin, Ireland bmohammadi tabrizu.ac.ir Abstract : The interactions of the natural gas network and the electricity system are increased by using gas -fired generation units, which use natural gas to produce electricity. There are various uncertainty sources such as the forced outage of generating units or market price fluctuations that affect the economic operation of both natural gas and electricity systems. This paper focuses on the steady -state formulation of the integrated natural gas transmission grid and electricity system by considering the uncertainty of electricity market price based on information gap decision theory. The higher and lower costs than the expected cost originated from the fluctuations of electricity market price are modelled by the robustness and opportunity function s, respectively. The objective is to minimize the cost of zone one while satisfying the constraints of two interdependent systems, which can obtain revenue from selling power to its connected zones in short -term scheduling. The capability of the proposed me thod is demonstrated by applying it on a 20-node natural gas network and IEEE RTS 24 -bus. The proposed short -term coordination between natural gas and electricity infrastructures is solved and discussed. Nomenclature ℎ𝑔 Coefficient for obtaining gas consumption of gas-fired generation units. 𝐵𝑐 Cost target for robustness function. 𝐵𝑤 Cost target for opportunity function. 𝑏𝑔 Cost coefficient of power generation unit 𝑔. 𝑐𝑘 Cost coefficient of gas supplier 𝑘. 𝑟𝑐 Critical value of the objective function. 𝑞 Decision variable in IGDT model. 𝐿𝐸𝑖𝑡 Electrical demand of bus 𝑖 at time 𝑡. 𝜆 𝑡 Forecasted market price for interval 𝑡. ũ Forecasted value of uncertain variable. 𝐿𝐺𝑚𝑡 Gas demand of node 𝑚 at time 𝑡. 𝑆𝑘𝑡 Gas extraction from gas supplier 𝑘 at time 𝑡. 𝛼 Horizon of the uncertain variable. 𝑔 Index for power generation units. 𝑔 Index for gas -fired generation units. 𝑖,𝑗 Index for network buses in zone one. 𝑘 Index for natural gas suppliers. 𝑚,𝑛 Index for nodes in natural gas transmission. 𝑡 Index for hours. 𝑤 Index for wind power generation units. 𝑧 Index for network buses in zones two and three. 𝛼 (𝑞,𝑟𝑐) Information -gap robustness function. 𝛽 (𝑞,𝑟𝑤) Information -gap opportunity function. 𝜆𝑡 Market clearing price at time 𝑡. 𝑃𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥 Maximum power generation limit of unit 𝑔. 𝑃𝑖𝑗𝑚𝑎𝑥 Maximum power flow limits between bus i j. 𝑃𝑖𝑧𝑚𝑎𝑥 Maximum power flow limits between bus 𝑖 z. 𝑃𝑤𝑚𝑎𝑥 Maximum power generation limit of unit 𝑤. 𝑆𝑘𝑚𝑎𝑥 Maximum limit of gas extraction from well 𝑘. 𝜋𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑥 Maximum limit of pressure at node 𝑚. 𝑃𝑔𝑚𝑖𝑛 Minimum power generation limit of unit 𝑔. 𝑃𝑤𝑚𝑖𝑛 Minimum power generation limit of unit 𝑤. 𝑆𝑘𝑚𝑖𝑛 Minimum limit of gas extraction from well 𝑘. 𝜋𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑛 Minimum limit of pressure at node 𝑚. 𝑓𝑚𝑛𝑡 Natural gas flow from node 𝑚 to 𝑛 at time 𝑡. 𝜋𝑚𝑡 Node pressure. 𝑃𝑖𝑗𝑡 Power flow between bus 𝑖 and 𝑗 at time 𝑡. 𝑃𝑖𝑧𝑡 Power flow between bus 𝑖 and 𝑧 at time 𝑡. 𝑃𝑔𝑡 Power generation of unit 𝑔 at time 𝑡. 𝑃𝑔 𝑡 Power generation of gas -fired unit 𝑔 at time 𝑡. 𝑃𝑤𝑡 Power generation of unit 𝑤 at time 𝑡. 𝑅𝑔𝑑𝑛 Ramp -down limit of unit 𝑔. 𝑅𝑔𝑢𝑝 Ramp -up limit of unit 𝑔. 𝛺𝐴 Set of gas pipelines in zone one. 𝛺𝐵 Set of network buses in zone one. 𝛺𝐺 Set of all power generation units. 𝛺𝐺𝑖 Set of all power generation units connected to bus 𝑖. 𝛺𝑙 Set of network branches. 𝛺𝑙𝑖 Set of all buses connected to bus 𝑖. 𝛺𝑁 Set of gas nodes. 𝛺𝐾𝑚 Set of all natural gas suppliers connected to node 𝑚. 𝛺𝐺𝑚 Set of all gas -fired units connected to node 𝑚. 𝑟𝑤 Target value of the objective function. 𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡 Total cost . 𝑥𝑖𝑗 Transmission line reactance between buses 𝑖 and 𝑗. 𝑢 Uncertain parameter in IGDT model. 𝑈(𝛼,ũ) Uncertainty model in IGDT method. 𝛿𝑖𝑡 Voltage angle in bus 𝑖. 𝐶𝑚𝑛 Weymouth constant. 1. Introduction Natural gas (NG) and electric ity are two important energy sources. The use of NG to generate electricity via natural gas -fired generating units has increased the 2 interdependency between NG and electricity energy sources 1 . Due to the interac tions between NG and electricity systems, their economy and reliability are affected by each other . Thus, the operating cost of gas-fired units change s if the NG s price fluctuates 2-4 . By 2030, the usage of NG in power generation is expected to increase by 230 5 . In North America, gas-fired units were anticipated to supply more than half of the pea k electricity demand by 2015 4 . The i ntegrated energy systems (IES) show more advantages comp ared to the independent ones 6 . Combined cycle powe r plants and gas -fired units have lower capital cost investment, operation flexibility, lower emission and better economic efficiency compared to the conventional coal plants 7 . Considering the above -mentioned benefits for energy system integration, the coordination between NG and electricity has obtained significant attention in ma ny research works . The interdependency between NG and electricity systems discussed in 8-13 . In 8 , the Monte Carlo simulation was applied to represent the coordinated s tochastic model of hourly economic demand response of electric power systems as well as the constraints of NG transmission by considering random errors in forecasting the day -ahead hourly loads, random outages of transmission lines and generating units . The optimal short -term operation of both hydrothermal systems and NG network was studied in 9 by assuming the constraints at the hydrothermal system, NG pipeline, extraction , and sto rage operation. In 10 , the Lagrangian relaxation (LR) was implemented to relax the coupling constraints of the coordinated
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Highlights The strong eﬀect of network resolution on electricity system models with high shares of wind and solar Martha Maria Frysztacki,Jonas Hörsch,Veit Hagenmeyer,Tom Brown Highly-renewable European power system is optimized at high spatial resolution High-resolution capacity placement for wind and solar reduces costs by up to 10 Models with low network resolution ignore congestion, underestimating costs by 23 Costs underestimated most when grid expansion limited by, e.g., public acceptance Grid reinforcements relieve congestion and lower system costs by up to 16 arXiv:2101.10859v4 physics.soc-ph 16 Jan 2023 The strong eﬀect of network resolution on electricity system models with high shares of wind and solar? Martha Maria Frysztackia,1, Jonas Hörscha,b, Veit Hagenmeyeraand Tom Browna,b aInstitute for Automation and Applied Informatics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, 76344 Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany bFrankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies, Ruth-Moufang-Straße 1, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany ARTICLE INFO Keywords : energy system modelling spatial scale clustering transmission grid modelling resource resolutionABSTRACT Energy system modellers typically choose a low spatial resolution for their models based on admin- istrative boundaries such as countries, which eases data collection and reduces computation times. However, a low spatial resolution can lead to sub-optimal investment decisions for wind and solar generation. Ignoringpowergridbottleneckswithinregionstendstounderestimatesystemcosts,while combining locations with diﬀerent wind and solar capacity factors in the same resource class tends to overestimate costs. We investigate these two competing eﬀects in a capacity expansion model for Europe s power system with a high share of renewables, taking advantage of newly-available high- resolution datasets as well as computational advances. We vary the number of nodes, interpolating betweena37-nodemodelbasedoncountryandsynchronouszoneboundaries,anda1024-nodemodel based on the location of electricity substations. If we focus on the eﬀect of renewable resource reso- lution and ignore network restrictions, we ﬁnd that a higher resolution allows the optimal solution to concentratewindandsolarcapacityatsiteswithbettercapacityfactorsandthusreducessystemcosts byupto10 comparedtoalowresolutionmodel. Thisresultsinabigswingfromoﬀshoretoonshore wind investment. However, if we introduce grid bottlenecks by raising the network resolution, costs increasebyupto23 asgenerationhastobesourcedmorelocallyatsiteswithworsecapacityfactors. Theseeﬀectsaremostpronouncedinscenarioswhere gridexpansionislimited,forexample,bylow localacceptance. Weshowthatallowinggridexpansionmitigatessomeoftheeﬀectsofthelowgrid resolution, and lowers overall costs by around 16 . 1. Introduction Electricity systems with high shares of wind and solar photovoltaicgenerationrequireafundamentallydiﬀerentkind of modelling to conventional power systems with only dis- patchable generation 63 . While investments in conven- tionalpowerplantscanbedimensionedaccordingtosimple heuristicslikescreeningcurves 10 ,theassessmentofwind andsolarresourcesrequiresahightemporalandspatialres- olutiontocapturetheirweather-drivenvariability. Theneed to assess investments in generation, transmission and ﬂexi- bility options over thousands of representative weather and demandsituations,aswellasoverthousandsofpotentiallo- cations, means that balancing model accuracy against com- putational resources has become a critical challenge. The eﬀects of temporal resolution have been well re- searched in the electricity system planning literature 12 , including the need for at least hourly modelling resolution 63 , the consequences of clustering representative condi- tions 41 , and the need to include extreme weather events 50 . Onthespatialside,ithasbeenrecognizedthatintegrat- ing renewable resources on a continental scale can smooth large-scale weather variations, particularly from wind 23 , and avoid the need for temporal balancing. This smooth- ing eﬀect has been found in studies of the beneﬁts of grid expansion both in Europe, where the impact on balancing needs 53 andstoragerequirements 55 hasbeenanalysed, ?This document is the results of the research project funded by Helmholtz Association under grant no. VH-NG-1352. ORCID(s): 1Corresponding author martha.frysztacki kit.edu (Martha Maria)and in the United States 44 . However, there has been lit- tle research on the eﬀects of spatial resolutions on planning results. This is partly due to the fact that collecting high- resolutionspatialdataischallenging,aswellasthefactthat optimizationathigh-resolutionoverlargeareasiscomputa- tionally demanding. Choosing the spatial resolution based on administrative boundariessuchascountryborders whichisacommonap- proach in the literature 23, 53, 31 fails to account for the variation of resources inside large countries like Germany. Aggregating low-yield sites together with high-yield sites takesawaytheopportunitytooptimizegenerationplacement, which distorts investment decisions and drives up costs. Onthe otherhand,aggregating diverseresourcesto sin- glepointstendstounderestimatenetwork-relatedcosts,since the models are blind to network bottlenecks that might hin- derthewelfare-enhancingintegrationofrenewableresources located far from demand centers. The eﬀects of network re- strictions are all the more important given the apparent low public acceptance for new overhead transmission lines, ob- servedinGermany 30 andacrossEurope 20 ,andthelong planning and construction times for new grid infrastructure 26 . Inthepresentcontributionweintroduceanovelmethod- ology to disentangle these two competing spatial eﬀects of resource and network resolution, so that for the ﬁrst time theirdiﬀerentimpactsonsystemcostsandtechnologychoices can be quantiﬁed. We then demonstrate the methodology by running simulations in a model of the future European electricity system with a higher spatial resolution than has Martha Maria et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 15 The strong eﬀect of network resolution on energy system models previously been achieved in the literature. We optimize in- vestmentsandoperationofgeneration,storageandtransmis- sion jointly in a system with a high share of renewables un- der a 95 reduction in CO2emissions compared to 1990, which is consistent with European targets for 2050 25 . A recently-developed, high-resolution, open-source model of the European transmission network, PyPSA-Eur 37 , is se- quentially clustered from 1024 nodes down to 37 nodes in order to examine the eﬀects on optimal investments in gen- eration, transmission and storage. Previous work in the engineering literature has focused on the eﬀect of diﬀerent network clustering algorithms 40 on the ﬂows in single power ﬂow simulations 11, 33 , or usedclusteringalgorithmsthataredependentonspeciﬁcdis- patch situations 18, 62, 59 and therefore unsuitable when makinglargechangestogenerationandtransmissioncapac- ities. Intheplanningliteraturethatconsidersahighshareof renewablesinthefutureenergysystem,theeﬀectsofcluster- ingappliedseparatelytowind,solaranddemandwereinves- tigatedin 61 ,butneglectedpotentialtransmissionlinecon- gestion within large regions. In 43 the previous study was extendedbyincludingasynthesizedgridandrenewablepro- ﬁles,butitignoredtheexistingtopologyofthetransmission grid. Eﬀects of varying the resolution were not considered in either of the studies. Recent work has examined regional solutions for the European power system, but did not take into account existing transmission lines, potential low pub- licacceptanceforgridreinforcementorthegridﬂowphysics 67 . Otherstudieshaveexaminedtransmissiongridexpan- sion at substation resolution, but either the temporal reso- lution was too low to account for wind and solar variability 24,35 ,oronlysinglecountrieswereconsidered 46,1,35 , or transmission expansion was not co-optimized with gen- eration and storage 24, 15, 58 . The competing eﬀect of clustering transmission lines versus variable resource sites on the share of renewables was also discussed in 21 , but thereportdidnotprovideananalysisofhowstronglythere- spective clustering impacts modeling and planning results. The eﬀects of model resolution on system planning results were considered for the United States in 42 , where a cost- beneﬁt was seen
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Monitoring electrical systems data-network equipment by means of Fuzzy and Paraconsistent Annotated Logic Hyghor Miranda C ˆortesa, Paulo Eduardo Santosa,b, Jo ao In acio da Silva Filhoc aCentro Universit ario FEI, S ao Bernardo do Campo, SP , Brazil (hyghorcortes gmail.com) bSchool of Science and Engineering, Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia (paedusan gmail.com) cUniversidade Santa Cec ılia, Santos, SP , Brazil (inacio unisanta.br) Abstract The constant increase in the amount and complexity of information obtained from IT data network elements, for its correct monitoring and management, is a reality. The same happens to data net- works in electrical systems that provide effective supervision and control of substations and hydro- electric plants. Contributing to this fact is the growing number of installations and new environments monitored by such data networks and the constant evolution of the technologies involved. This sit- uation potentially leads to incomplete and or contradictory data, issues that must be addressed in order to maintain a good level of monitoring and, consequently, management of these systems. In this paper, a prototype of an expert system is developed to monitor the status of equipment of data networks in electrical systems, which deals with inconsistencies without trivialising the inferences. This is accomplished in the context of the remote control of hydroelectric plants and substations by a Regional Operation Centre (ROC). The expert system is developed with algorithms deﬁned upon a combination of Fuzzy logic and Paraconsistent Annotated Logic with Annotation of Two Values (PAL2v) in order to analyse uncertain signals and generate the operating conditions ( faulty, normal, unstable or inconsistent indeterminate ) of the equipment that are identiﬁed as important for the remote control of hydroelectric plants and substations. A prototype of this expert system was installed on a virtualised server with CLP500 software (from the EFACEC manufacturer) that was applied to investigate scenarios consisting of a Regional (Brazilian) Operation Centre, with a Generic Substation and a Generic Hydroelectric Plant, representing a remote control environment. Keywords: Paraconsistent Annotated Logic with Annotation of Two Values, Fuzzy logic, SNMP, electrical system, automation, network monitoring. 1. Introduction Innovative computing techniques are deployed each year in order to increase the efﬁciency and responsiveness of the user needs in data networks, enhancing it both in scale and complexity. The need to constantly evaluate the status of these networks in this context is imminent, driving the devel- opment of monitoring systems with a wide range of features functionalities. Network management has become an indispensable task from the network s correct functioning, an issue that is essential to maintaining the quality demanded by the market (Stallings, 1998). The continuous growth in the number and diversity of computer-network equipment and, conse- quently, in the volume of information signals coming from these, has turned network management into a complex task. This also applies to the ﬁeld of automation, where automation manufacturers, Preprint submitted to Expert Systems with Applications May 25, 2021arXiv:2105.07579v2 cs.AI 24 May 2021 with the popularisation of ethernet networks, started to provide communication modules with Sim- ple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). The Industrial Automation Open Network (IAONA) protocol speciﬁcation reinforces this trend by publishing a Management Information Base (MIB) for SNMP categorisation of industrial applications (Fonseca et al., 2006). As a result, manufacturers now provide Management Information Bases (MIBs) for their prod- ucts, which add speciﬁc Object Identiﬁers (OIDs) for monitoring automation devices. Some exam- ples of data about OIDs found in automation equipment in the MIBs and in the IAONA are: Application information (name, in operation ); Protocol data (Ethernet IP, ModbusTCP); Device name, serial number, vendor name, device version ﬁrmware. According to (Fonseca et al., 2006; Villela and Oliveira Filho, 2019; Flores and Marcos, 2009; Freitas, 2014), in contrast to the current fast development of MIBs for data network automation, these devices usually end up not monitored or monitored in isolation from the rest of the plant. In this context, concentrating the monitoring data on a centralised data centre becomes a suitable solution. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems at the operation centres provide some of the desirable features for monitoring data network devices involved in the automation of critical processes. Speciﬁcally in electrical systems, the need for monitoring is often more pronounced because there are completely isolated facilities and devices, without any monitoring events, not even local. This is particularly relevant in the context of the Brazilian power grids. In addition, there is an increasing amount of data to be analysed that are related to fault classiﬁcation of network equipment, where contradictory and inaccurate information often occur. Therefore, in addition to more detailed monitoring, it is necessary to use algorithms that address this information gap. The application of algorithms with non-classical logic is an alternative to alleviate this problem, as they allow for a more reﬁned, explicit, treatment of information than black-box systems, or traditional logic-based systems. In this paper, Fuzzy logic and a Paraconsistent Annotated Logic with Annotation of Two Values (PAL2v) are combined to analyse and classify the operating conditions of equipment in data net- works within two SCADA-monitored electrical installations of a Regional Operations Centre (ROC) in Brazil. In this analysis, information (variables) are collected from each equipment in the power grid using two distinct sources (used as evidences), the degree of contradiction between these vari- ables is calculated and then, through a hybrid Fuzzy-paraconsistent inference tool (PAL2v lattice), the condition of the equipment operation ( normal, failure, unstable or undetermined inconsistent ) is inferred. The next section presents the background upon which this work was developed. The method for the analysis of data networks proposed in this paper is described in Section 3 and the related tests are described in Section 4. Sections 5 and 6 present the results and discussions, Section 7 presents the related works, and Section 8 close this paper with conclusions and future works. 2. Background This section presents some fundamental concepts of automation, remote control of data network equipment, monitoring of electrical systems (Section 2.1), and also about Fuzzy logic and the Para- consistent
