Jessica Dean, CNN, CBS, Age, Husband, Father and Net Worth
Jessica Dean, CNN, CBS, Age, Husband, Father and Net Worth
November 16, 2021 admin Famous People in USA 0
Jessica Dean CNN
Jessica Dean is a CNN Congressional correspondent who covers Capitol Hill. She’s been working in the field since 2018, previously covering President Joe Biden’s presidential campaign and transition.
Biden’s campaign was a long, tiring, bumpy ride. Dean covered the campaign for almost two years straight, often driving nearly 10 hours a day to cover Biden’s events in small towns across the country.
Jessica used to work at KYW-TV in Philadelphia and was one of the co-anchors of the weekday evening news anchors. It is believed that she honed her skills and gained a name for herself there. A native of Arkansas, Dean is an experienced reporter and anchor with ties to the state. Her career began in Fort Smith when she was a general assignment reporter.
Jessica Dean was born on August 22, 1985, in Little Rock, Arkansas, She pursued her passion for broadcast journalism from the University of Southern California and graduated in 2006 with a bachelor’s degree.
READ: Joya Tillem MD, Height, Movies, Doctor, Family, and Net Worth
Age
Jessica Dean was born in 1985 in Little Rock, Arkansas, thus she is 36-year-old in the year 2022. More specifically, she celebrates her birthday on August 22 each year. Little Rock, Arkansas where Dean was born,  is the capital and most populous city in the state of Arkansas. It is the county seat of Pulaski County. The city population was estimated at 202,591 in 2020.”
Jessica Dean Education
Jessica has always had a knack for anchoring. She pursued her passion for broadcast journalism from the University of Southern California and graduated in 2006 with a bachelor’s degree.
There are a lot of great journalism schools & USC is one of them! If you’re thinking about going into the field, it makes sense to seek out a school that is known for producing quality journalism students.
Footnote: 42 million people are carrying federal student loans in America today. With total student debt reaching $1.6 trillion, there’s a lot of information to digest!
Jessica Dean Height
Jessica is approximately 5 ft 5 inches tall, However, we don’t know her weight at this time.
Let us put you in the know: Over a third of adults in America are overweight.
Jessica Dean Children
Ms. Jessica is a successful journalist, but her personal life has been difficult to uncover. She has been married for a number of years and it is unclear whether or not she has children.
FYI: the biggest concern parents have in America today is the gangs, guns, and opioid addiction( illegal and prescribed). The number of drug overdose deaths reached 70,630 in 2019, surpassing 70,000 for the first time since 2011.
Jessica Dean CNN
Dean joined CNN in 2018 after she spent time at KYW-TV in Philadelphia, where she specialized in local and national political stories. Jessica went on to serve as a Washington correspondent for CNN.
In 2017, Jessica acted as a panelist for the New Jersey Gubernatorial Debate. In addition, she covered the 2016 Presidential race extensively, providing live coverage from the 2016 Republican National Convention.
Jessica covered the 2016 Democratic National Convention, election night from Hillary Clinton headquarters in New York City, and the inauguration of President Donald Trump. In 2015 she also reported from outside of Philadelphia’s Wells Fargo Center during a Bernie Sanders rally. She covered the Pope’s visit to the US, anchoring live from Rome and Philly.
CNN Anchors, Female
Christiane Amanpour
Becky Anderson
Zain Asher
Dana Bash
Kate Bolduan
Pamela Brown
Erin Burnett
Ana Cabrera
Alisyn Camerota
Julia Chatterley
Rosemary Church
S.E. Cupp
Robyn Curnow
Amanda Davies
Nina dos Santos
Bianna Golodryga
Hala Gorani
Poppy Harlow
Erica Hill
Susan Hendricks
Christine Romans
Brianna Keilar
Lynda Kinkade
Melissa Knowles
Alison Kosik
Christina Macfarlane
Robin Meade
Bianca Nobilo
Christi Paul
Abby Phillip
Christine Romans
Isa Soares
Kristie Lu Stout
Jennifer Westhoven
Fredricka Whitfield
Jessica Dean CBS
Dean is a journalist who has been working for CBS 3 for the vast majority of her professional career. Jessica was born and raised in Arkansas and is now an anchor at CNN. She joined CBS3 in September 2013 and left the station in September 2018. Jessica confirmed her departure on social media, stating that she left because it was time for her to move on after five years of service.
Jessica Dean Husband
Jessica’s husband is called Blake Spencer Rutherford, who is a business and comms strategist. Furthermore, Jessica and Blake got married on 24th October 2009. Just her parents, aunts, cousins, and close friends showed up to support her on this special occasion. And they were no doubt present because Blake is a lawyer in Cozen O’Connor’s Government & Regulatory Practice. He has been handling issues in the law, policy, politics & communications for years now.
Jessica Dean Father
As of right now, it looks like Jessica’s father is unknown, which means she prefers to keep them out of the limelight. However, we will update this section once we have the names.
Jessica Dean Net Worth
Dean’s net worth is unknown, but with her position in the news industry, we believe she does not earn a minimum wage, and life in Washington would be difficult for her otherwise. We presume that she has a high level of income.
Can You Live on 20 Dollars an Hour in America today in 2022?
If you live in a rural area where the cost of living is cheaper, then 20 bucks an hour is probably more than enough for survival. In more expensive cities like NYC or San Francisco however, it will be tough to survive on that minimum wage.
What is Middle-Class Net Worth?
A middle-class American family’s net worth is about $43,760 to $201,800. This range is the median net worth of an American family. READ MORE: What is a Comfortable Salary?
Who is CNN’s Correspondent Jessica?
CNN congressional correspondent Jessica Dean previously covered President Joe Biden’s presidential campaign and transition. Before CNN, Jessica worked at CBS for five years.
Is Jessica Dean Still with CNN?
Ms. Dean joined CNN in September of 2018 after spending 5 years at CBS. She worked at CBS from 2013 to 2018 and she became a household name when she covered the news on the tumultuous 2016 election. We have not heard any news yet on whether she is leaving CNN, so stay tuned!
Is CNN Jessica Dean Married?
Yes! Jessica is married to Blake Spencer Rutherford.
The two tied the knot in a private wedding ceremony, attended by aunts, uncles, cousins, and friends. The couple exchanged their vows on October 24, 2009. It is not clear whether these two married partners have children.
Let’s Learn A Few Facts about America
United States Population (as of 11/10/2021) stands at 333,620,638
In America, 8,159 people die per day ,  which translates to 6 deaths an hour
However 10, 903 children are born daily pushing the figures to 454 kids an hour.
Furthermore, America welcomes 2,561 migrants each day, which looks like 107 migrants per hour cross in the United States.
United States Population in 2050
By 2050, it is expected that the US population will have reached 382 million. This projection is based on the assumption that the current trend of population growth will continue. 82% of it between 2005 and 2050 is forecast to be from immigrants and their descendants.
This means that nearly 69 million people are immigrants in the US, 47 million from second-generation immigrants, and 3 million from third-generation immigrants. With nearly 20% of the population counting as an immigrant or person of immigrant descent, the country has big growth to look forward to.
American Ethnicity in 2050
Over the course of the next 3 decades, the racial makeup of America is projected to be less white and more diverse. In The year 2050:
47% of the population will be non-Hispanic whites.
29% will be Hispanics.
Who is the Richest Anchor on TV?
Sean Hannity is one of the wealthiest journalists in the world. He’s worth 250 million dollars and makes 40 million a year from his work. TV and radio are his biggest earners, However, he is also an author.
Jessica Dean
How Much Money Should you Always Have in Your Checking Account?