Clifford - 5706X
Clifford 5706X
LCD 2-Way Security + Remote Start System
Clifford | Security with Remote Start | 5706X
1
2
3
Overview
Clifford 2-Way remote is the 3rd generation of our LCD, complete with SST with up to One Mile Range, the new Priority icons and text seen on a 20% larger liquid-crystal display, an onboard lithium-ion rechargeable battery with micro-USB recharging – all in the slimmest display remote on the market.
(1 Reviews)
Tweet
Features
Up to one mile range*
Separate ESP2 and D2D ports
Directed SmartStart Compatible
4 auxiliary channels
Flex relay and selectable light flash priority**
Onboard remote start relays
Revenger® 6-tone siren
Stinger® DoubleGuard® Shock Sensor
Horn Honk**
Manual transmission compatible**
Priority icon map with LCD display
Rechargeable battery
Includes 1-Way companion remote
Where To Buy
Download Quick Reference Guide
Download 5706X Guide
*Range based on line-of-sight, unobstructed testing in ideal conditions. Actual range will vary due to local conditions including, but not limited to, environment, terrain, physical obstructions, vehicle location and orientation, interference and other possible impediments.
**Additional parts and labor may be required.
Technologies
Responder LC3
Responder LC3 is the amazing 3rd Generation of Responder SST, with one-mile range, an LCD screen that’s 20% larger – and our coolest industrial designs, with an upgraded user interface, 3 intuitive side buttons, and a mini-USB charging port for the built-in rechargeable battery.
Combining the best features of Responder SST One Mile Range with all the exciting “New Technology Platform” features introduced with the Best of Innovations Award-winning Responder LE, Responder LC3 systems come with one 2-Way LC3 remote, plus a companion 1-Way SST one mile range remote.
SuperCode
SuperCode is the technology that defines the functionality of the Responder LE and the intelligence that drives its advanced features. Its protocol encompasses software-based system signal encryption (replacing hardware-based Clone Safe Code-Hopping). Multi-car operation is designed into the SuperCode protocol, so users will have all of the possible operations for two cars controllable by one remote. 2-way confirmations and notifications of many different events and commands have been designed into SuperCode, so all SuperCode-enabled 2-way systems can tell the user more about their vehicle than any other system on the market.
SmartStart Compatible
If you already have a compatible Clifford remote start system in your car, the DSM300/DSM350 will add SmartStart capability to your system.
Now you can remote start or lock and unlock your car just by pushing a button on your Smartphone using the exciting new Clifford SmartStart app from Directed Electronics.
The simple graphical interface gives you control over the following features of your installed Clifford remote start or security/remote start system: Lock/arm, Unlock/disarm, Remote Start, Trunk release, Panic or car finder. You can also control multiple vehicles - great for families! - and assign more than one user to control a vehicle. It's easy with SmartStart!