Brittany Bade KRQE, Bio, Age, Wiki, Family, Husband, Height, Net Worth   | 
   yankeewikis.com
Brittany Bade KRQE, Bio, Age, Wiki, Family, Husband, Height, Net Worth
Brittany Bade is an American journalist currently serving as the 9 pm and 10:30 pm anchor and reporter for KRQE-TV. She began her career as
BY Admin 1
Brittany Bade
Brittany Bade Biography
Brittany Bade is an American journalist currently serving as the 9 pm and 10:30 pm anchor and reporter for KRQE-TV. She began her career as an MSJ, and after six months was promoted to fill-in anchor. She is currently fill-in anchoring on 10News Today Weekend.
Brittany graduated from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University.
Brittany Bade Age
Bade was born on 08/01/1993 in  Phoenix Arizona. She is 28 years old.
Brittany Bade Height
She stands at an approximate height of 5 feet 5 inches.
Brittany Bade Family
Brittany was born in Phoenix, the United States to her loving parents. She has a younger brother called Tyler Thomas Bade. She has not yet revealed much concerning her family. However, information about her parents and siblings will be updated as soon as possible.
Brittany Bade Spouse
Brittany is in a romantic relationship with a man named Nate. She frequently posts pictures of her and her boyfriend going on hikes and road trips.
Brittany Bade KRQE
Brittany anchors and reports for KRQE at 10 pm. She covered everything from politics to the Department of Veterans Affairs scandal to education. She also spent six months in Washington, D.C. covering Arizona politicians and President Obama’s Executive Order on Immigration.
Brittany’s first job was at WBIR-TV in Knoxville, Tennessee. In her two years there, she covered the mass shooting in Chattanooga, TN that killed five military servicemen, a toxic train derailment that prompted the evacuation of 5,000 people, and the devastating Gatlinburg wildfires that killed 14 people and destroyed more than 4,000 structures.
Brittany moved to New Mexico in June of 2017. She is excited to explore more of the southwest. She loves to run, hike, travel and ski. She began her career as an MSJ, and after six months was promoted to fill-in anchor. She is currently fill-in anchoring on 10News Today Weekend.
Brittany works as an MMJ responsible for pitching and turning promotable stories for the dominant #1 evening newscasts. She shoots, writes, and edits all her own stories.
Brittany covered national breaking news events like the fatal fires in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and Gatlinburg, the school bus crash that killed six students in Chattanooga, and the random shooting death of a teenage hero, Zaevion Dobson, who died shielding his friends from the shots.
Recent stories include continuing coverage of the ambush attack that killed Police Officer Kenny Moats, a rare special session at the Tennessee State Legislature to expel a State Representative, and a devastating helicopter crash that killed five in a neighboring county.
Brittany Bade’s Salary
Brittany’s salary is estimated to be between $10,000 to $50,000 per year.
Brittany Bade Net Worth
Her estimated net worth ranges between $500k – $1 million.
Brittany Bade Twitter
Tweets by BrittanyBadeTV