Miranda Buscay Massage Therapist in Carson City, NV
About
Where I Work
Specialties
Reviews
Share my profile
Miranda Buscay
ABMP Member
NV License #: 4959
112
Our life is what our thoughts make of it.
more...
In 2007 I graduated from massage therapy school in Henderson, NV. and began my journey as a Bodyworker/Healer.  Listening to my inner voice, I decided to move to Washington State.  While there I met and worked with other Massage Therapists, Bodyworkers, Healers, and a Naturopath Doctor/Acupuncturist.  After attending many meditation groups and other healing ceremonies I quickly learned how "The body has the ability to heal itself."
I am here to help each person on their own path of healing. ...
Book a Bodywork service with me today
Where I Work
Available Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
Miranda Buscay LMT
4
116 E. 7th St
Carson City, NV 89701
Map
Licenses
Massage
NV # 4959
Education
2007
Lincoln College of Technology, Henderson
Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork
2008
Evergreen Center for the Healing Arts
Kinesiology and Pathology
by Sonya on
            Apr 19
Feeling is healing! and I feel so incredibly lucky to be kneaded by such a delightfully intuitive being. Miranda’s hands worked the magic of awareness into my tissues and helped my body find relief by connecting feeling to my healing.
by Tracy on
            Feb 22
Miranda is a master at massage. Her work is therapeutic and restorative. I walk out of the session feeling grounded and refreshed. She is magic!
by Tina on
            Jan 28
Amazing!!! Very skilled…what a gift she has!!! I can’t wait to go again!!!
by Mike on
            Jan 19
Miranda has been my therapist fo r many years. She has always been the definition of professional. Always finds and fixes the issues with my body. I would very highly recommend her to anyone looking for a massage therapist.
by Anonymous on
            Jan 01
Miranda made the experience very comfortable and her touch is absolute magic. You can tell she is a master at her craft - I walked away feeling lighter and more open than I had in a long time.
by Anonymous on
            Nov 28
Very polite and professional
by Kimber on
            Oct 06
Having a therapeutic massage with Miranda, is literally, one of the most profound things I have ever done for my health. I am very thankful, to have this incredible tool in my health arsenal! Will be returning regularly!!!
by Tracy on
            Oct 05
Miranda is a healer who is intuitive with her work. Her calmness and skill surpass most massage therapists I’ve experienced. Carson City is lucky to have her.
by Anonymous on
            Sep 30
Everything!
by Anonymous on
            Sep 20
I have been to two other massage therapist and Miranda is like no other.
SPECIALTIES: Bodywork and Massage techniques I perform
Bodywork & Massage
Therapeutic Touch
Pregnancy Massage
Check my availability and schedule appointments for a Bodywork service
Miranda Buscay LMT
116 E. 7th St
Carson City, NV 89701