Planet Sun
The Hubble Space Telescope celebrates its 30th birthday
April 27, 2020 by admin
For 30 years, the space telescope Hubble has provided the most impressive images from the vast wide space. The telescope was developed by the US space agency NASA and its European counterpart ESA. Hubble started its journey into space on 24 April 1990. With the help of the space shuttle “Discovery” it was lifted into … Read more
First Image of a Black Hole – Event Horizon
April 26, 2019 by admin
The Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) — a planet-scale array of 8 ground-based radio telescopes and part of an international collaboration — captured the first image of a black hole. On April 10th 2019, EHT researchers disclosed the first direct visual evidence of a supermassive black hole in the heart of the Galaxy Messier 87.
5 Budget-Friendly Telescopes You Can Choose For Viewing Planets
November 4, 2018 by admin
Socrates couldn’t have been more right when he said: “I know one thing, that I know nothing.” Even with all of the advancements we, as a species, have made in this world, it’s still nothing compared to countless of wonders waiting to be discovered in the vast universe.
If you’ve recently developed an interest in astronomy and stargazing but don’t know whether you are serious enough to actually pursue such an endeavor, the best thing for you to do is get an affordable telescope and try to peer into the vast cosmos yourself to find out whether this is actually something you would want to do in the long-run.
Annular Solar Eclipse on Sunday, May 20th 2012
May 20, 2012 by admin
On Sunday, May 20th 2012, people in a narrow strip from Japan to the western United States will be able to see an annular solar eclipse, the first in 18 years. The moon will cover as much as 94% of the sun. An Annular Solar Eclipse is different from a Total Solar Eclipse, when the moon covers the entire sun.
The story behind Planet Sun
May 13, 2011 by admin
Some words about history of Planet Sun. For round about six years Planet Sun has been an aggregation of public weblogs written by employees of Sun Microsystems. Though it never was a product or publication of Sun Microsystems itself. The website was powered by Planet and run by David Edmondson. On 01 Mar 2010 David … Read more
1 2 Next →