Kathleen Bade Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, Fox 5
Kathleen Bade Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, Fox 5
Posted by On 0 Comment
Kathleen Bade Photo
Kathleen Bade Biography – Wikipedia
This is what you need to know about Kathleen Bade, an American Award-winning news Journalist and anchor working for Fox 5 News at 6 and 10 since 2008. Before joining Fox 5 news, she worked her first on-air job in Yuma, Arizona at KYMA, where she was the evening weathercaster and fill-in anchor.
Kathleen Bade Age – Birthday
Bade was born on 134 February in the united states. She has not revealed the year she was born hence it will be updated as soon as it’s available.
Kathleen Bade Height
Not Known.
Kathleen Bade Family
Bade is a wife to Jeff and a parent to two kids and Little is known about her parents, also there are no details about her siblings, therefore this information will be updated as soon as it’s available.
Kathleen Bade Husband
Bade is happily married to her husband Jeff. The two tied the knot on 31 December 1994. The couple is blessed with two beautiful children,  Jackson and Campbell.
Kathleen Bade Salary
Bade receives an annual average salary of $ 418K. This is according to Fox 5 News anchors/reporter’s salaries
Kathleen Bade Net Worth
Bade has an estimated Net Worth of $ 100k – $ 1 million dollars. Her career as a journalist is her primary source of income.
Kathleen Bade Education
Bade has earned her Broadcast Meteorology degree and certification from Mississippi State University.
Kathleen Bade Fox 5 News
Bade is an American Award-winning news Journalist and anchor working for Fox 5 News at 6 and 10 since 2008. Before joining Fox 5 news, she worked her first on-air job in Yuma, Arizona at KYMA, where she was the evening weathercaster and fill-in anchor. She also worked for Fox and launching a brand new morning newscast called “FOX 10 Arizona Morning” as co-host. Her impact was immediate, turning the show into a top contender in the market in just three years.
She returned to her hometown of Phoenix where she worked for the NBA’s Phoenix Suns in community relations. She also worked alongside such basketball greats as Hall of Famer Connie Hawkins and the incomparable Charles Barkley — the man her 130-pound Bernese mountain dog “Barkley” was honorably named after.
She also returned to the San Diego airwaves in 2008 with the launch of FOX 5 San Diego. Now the top-rated 10 p.m. newscasts in the market, Kathleen calls her time at FOX 5 the most satisfying of her career. On her free time, she loves going to the mountains of Telluride, Colorado with her family, interior decorating, and is addicted to HGTV home renovation shows.
Read More
Lynda Baquero Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, WNBC
This is what you need to know about Lynda Baquero, an American news correspondent currently working for WNBC news, in New York City.  She joined the WNBC in 1995 from local cable news network NY1 News where she was a daily news anchor and consumer reporter for three years.
The Famous Data
Kristina Audencial Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, Fox 5
This is what you need to know about Kristina Audencial, an American Emmy award-winning anchor for the Fox 5 San Diego morning news. She is one of the four news anchors on the Fox 5 morning show. She also anchors from Monday to Friday from 4:30 to 6 a.m. By February 2017, she was anchoring from 4:30 a.m. to 7 a.m.
The Famous Data