Rochelle Ritchie【 Wikipedia Bio 】Age, Parents, Husband, Net Worth
Home » political analyst »
Rochelle Ritchie【 Wikipedia Bio 】Age, Parents, Husband, Net worth
by Marathi.TV Editorial Team
Feb 19, 2021
Name Rochelle Ritchie Age / How old / Birthday / Date of Birth / DOB February 5, 1982. As of 2022, she is around 40 years old.
Wiki Biography / Profile Information
Introduction :
Rochelle Ritchie is an American media strategist and political commentator.
She is also a former TV reporter and a former congressional press secretary.
Personal Life : Family and Education
Rochelle Ritchie was born on February 5, 1982, on the Southside of Chicago, Illinois, to teenage parents.
Her mother was only seventeen years old when she had Rochelle, but still went on to successfully graduate from high school at the top of her class. Later, she pursued a college degree and even attended medical school.
Rochelle grew up in Kentucky accompanying her mother to the library and watching her study for hours for medical school. This inspired her to be bold and independent from a young age.
After graduating from high school herself, Rochelle relocated to Bowling Green, Kentucky, where she attended Western Kentucky University from 1999 to 2004. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Broadcast News.
Rochelle later attended the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, where she secured her Master of Arts in Communications degree.
Currently, she resides in New York City.
Career, Job, Salary & Net worth :
After graduating from Western Kentucky University, Rochelle spent some time working at Applebee’s while looking for jobs in Broadcast Journalism.
She then moved to Lexington, Kentucky, where she worked as a video editor for WLEX-TV. During her time there, her colleagues helped her put together a stand-out reel that got her several interviews in the world of reporting.
From March 2006 to March 2007, Rochelle worked as a reporter for KSWO TV in Lawton, Oklahoma.
She then spent the next decade working as a reporter in television in TV stations such as KREM 2 in Spokane (Washington), WJZ TV in Baltimore (Maryland), and WPTV in West Palm Beach (Florida).
In 2012, she started working for CNN as a political commentator and has appeared on numerous other channels such as MSNBC and FOX News.
Rochelle also worked for the House of Representatives Democratic Policy and Communications Committee as a congressional press secretary.
Trivia and Interesting Facts :
Rochelle interviewed former First Lady Michelle Obama during the 2008 Presidential campaign. She has stated that it was her most memorable interview.
In 2009, Rochelle produced, shot, wrote, and edited a story that exposed the bigotry suffered by African American women for not conforming to European standards of beauty. During this shoot, Rochelle removed her hair extensions and cut the relaxed parts of her hair while on camera.
After her decade as a TV reporter, Rochelle also spent some time working for the Office of the State Attorney’s for Baltimore City as a Director of Communications for State Attorney Marilyn J. Mosby.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s press office specifically asked Rochelle to teach media training to the House communication directors and press secretaries.
Rochelle loves to travel and has visited many countries across the world.
She frequently visits her parents home in Kentucky, where she spends time with the neighbouring horses.
Body Info / Physical Features
Rochelle Ritchie Measurements :
Eye Color : Brown
Haircut / Hair Color : Black
How tall / Height : 5’ 2”
Legs / Feet / Shoe Size : No confirmed information available.
Pregnant ? : Currently, she is not expecting a baby.
Personal / Home Details
Is Rochelle Ritchie Married? : See the section above.
Children / No of Kids : No confirmed information available.
Ethnicity / Origin / Heritage / Race : Black
Nationality : American
Wedding & Marriage / Husband / Spouse / Partner See above for relationship details.
Tags: Fox News Female Anchors Legs