CNN's Athena Jones Bio At Age 42: Married, Husband, Salary & Facts
TV Celebrity
Published on November 11, 2018
CNN's Athena Jones Bio At Age 42: Married, Husband, Salary & Facts
Athena Jones is a national correspondent for CNN news...joined the network in 2011…is at the age of 42...was born to her to her lawyer parents…bags a handsome salary of $66K...got popularity for NBC News Special: The Inauguration of  Barack Obama and…being married and having a husband are the things…
By MD Writer
Quick Information
Date of Birth Jul 06, 1976
Age 45 Years, 9 Months
Nationality American
Profession Journalist
Marital Status Single
Divorced/Engaged Not Yet
Gay/Lesbain No
Ethnicity African American
Net Worth Not Disclosed
Height N/A
Education Harvard University, University of Madrid
To have bigger dreams and equal motivation to work hard is not everyone’s cup of tea. But, Athena Jones is an exception. Athena, a national correspondent for CNN news, has come a long way since the beginning of her professional life.
In the initial days, she worked for Bloomberg News; reporting on politics and economy. Later, she grabbed the opportunity of working in Reuters, Buenos Aires as a reporter. During her tenure, she covered the farm industry, the Argentine presidential elections, and economic downfall of Argentina.
Her excellent working skills and dedication excelled her in the field of journalism. Getting the offer to work as White House Producer, she got enrolled in NBC. In NBC, she covered up Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama’s presidential campaign in 2008. She also gained popularity for the story on NBC News Special: The Inauguration of Barack Obama(2009), Inside the Obama White House(2009) and Anderson Cooper 360 (2003)
CNN
In 2011, Athena joined the CNN as a general assignment reporter. Since then, she has touched the stories related to Affordable Care Act, street protests against police brutality, the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flt 370, debates over immigration reform, Supreme Court decisions, and budget issues.
Athena Jones presents her view in 2018 Women in the World Summit on 14 April 2018 (Photo: zimbio.com)
Athena also worked as a CNN white house correspondent; reporting about President Donald Trump and his administration. As a top professional in the American news industry, Athena bags a handsome salary of $66K to enrich her net worth of millions.
Athena Jones Biography
42-year-old Athena was born on 6 July 1976 in the United States of America to her lawyer parents. Sad to say, Athena’s mother passed away in 2013, and she admitted that her mom was an inspiration for her to achieve high. As of now, she pays tribute to her mother by posting in social sites.
Interesting: Yunji de Nies Wiki, Age, Married, Husband, New Job
Talking about education, Athena, who has an average height, comes from a well-educated family. She earned her bachelor degree in Government from Harvard University. Later, she learned art, Spanish language, literature and finally European Politics at the University of Madrid. Moreover, she has a degree of studying Islamic Studies in Cairo”s American Research Center.
Is Athena Jones Married?
When it comes to her personal life, Athena Jones is pretty much secretive and has kept it far from the limelight. Even her social sites' post has no news regarding her relationship status. And Athena herself has not broken up her silence regarding it. Though she seems to be sing le now, there are possibilities that Athena is married to husband and is keeping her married life a top secret.