Ana Navarro Net Worth, Married, Husband, Weight Loss
Home
Celebrities
Last Updated on April 12, 2019
Ana Navarro Net Worth, Married, Husband, Weight Loss
A vocal GOP operator is known for her presenting her views in an unprecedented way. After her fiery on-air interaction with Trump surrogate, Ana Navarro has established herself as Republican reporter. Ana Navarro is a well established political analyst of the United States. She frequently appears in different news outlets including CNN and ABC News to talk about her opinion related to the emerging political matters.
By WN Writer
Quick Information
Date of Birth Dec 28, 1971
Age 50 Years, 4 Months
Nationality American, Nicaraguan
Profession Strategist
Marital Status Single
Divorced Not Yet
Boyfriend/Dating Gene Prescott
Gay/Lesbian No
Net Worth Not Disclosed
Salary $110, 000 Per Year (Approx.)
Ethnicity Mixed
Social Media Facebook, Twitter, Instagram
Children/Kids Not Yet
Height N\A
Education St. Thomas University (1997), University of Miami (1993), St. Thomas University School of Law
Parents Augusto Navarro (Father), Violeta Flores Lopez (Mother)
A vocal GOP operator is known for her presenting her views in an unprecedented way. After her fiery on-air interaction with Trump surrogate, she has established herself as Republican reporter.
Ana Navarro is a well-established American political analyst. She frequently appears in different news outlets including CNN and ABC News to talk about her opinion related to the emerging political matters.
How Much Is Ana Navarro’s Net Worth?
The 46-year-old news anchor accumulates her net worth from her journalism career since mid-2000. She is increasing her paychecks working as a Republican reporter for CNN and CNN en Espanol. According to Payscale, the average salary of a CNN news anchor is estimated to be $66,000 a year.
She also has a news reporting experience at the American-Spanish language terrestrial television network named Telemundo. According to Payscale, the Telemundo employee makes an average salary of $58,000 per annum.
Over the years, Ana as a political commentator has been part of CNN and ABC News. But to the recent news development, Ana and her news colleague Abby Huntsman are considered as the potential replacements of Sara Haines and Paula Faris in the ABC daytime talk show, The View.
Read About: Jordyn Woods Wiki: Age, Boyfriend, Dating, Pregnant, Family, Net Worth
Criticizes President Donald Trump For His Derogatory Remark
The Journalist always had bad blood for the U.S President, Donald Trump. She had recently dissed Donald for mocking the IQ level of African-American through her Tweet.
(Photo: Ana Navarro's Twitter)
Always known for his outspoken nature, Ana and American columnist, Meghan McCain had a befitting conversation on the episode of CNN’s show, The View on 3 August 2018. Meghan had slammed the CNN network for their bias reporting while Ana defended the network’s news as “balanced” reporting.
Meghan was discussing the phrase “ enemy of the people ,” which President Donald often uses when referring to media outlets. To which, Ana does not agree as she uses such terms for the terrorist group. Ana also further told that,
"CNN tries to be very balanced. CNN has commentators on like me and every time I’m on, I’m on against somebody that is defending Trump.”
Meghan previously had even questioned Ana for calling herself as a Republican when she slammed President Donald for his Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program back in January 2018.
Back in October 2016, she was involved in a fiery on-air interview with Scottie Neil Hughes, who was Trump Campaign surrogate. After the video of Trump's 2005 video went viral, she termed Trump "a flat-out racist."
Is Ana Navatto Married?
The Political Commentator is in a relationship with the Democratic fundraiser, Gene Prescott. Gene Prescott, 74, owns Biltmore Hotel in Coral Gables.
Biltmore which was famous for hosting the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, Bing Crosby, Judy Garland, and Al Capone, her partner bought the hotel in 1992 and had developed it into a bipartisan hub of the political money circuit. He persuaded US President Bill Clinton to hold a summit of Latin-American leaders at his hotel and lured the then-president for vacations and fundraiser.
Ana Navarro and her partner, Gene Prescott photographed back on 31 January 2010 (Photo: Flickr.com)
The couple dated for quite a while, but they had not revealed their wedding plans. In 2015, The New York Times mentioned Gene as her boyfriend. However, in 2016, Virtual Globetrotting Magazine listed them as a married couple.
Know More On: CNN's Laurie Segall Wiki, Age, Married, Husband, Boyfriend, Bio, Salary
The reporter amazed her followers when she flaunted her wedding ring in an Instagram photo on 16 May 2015. She had attended one of the function as an alum member of Miami University.
However, their relationship's status seems baffled as Anna shared her engagement ring with Al Cardenas back in October 2018. She shared a picture of an engagement ring on her Instagram and disclosed her commitment .
She also posted a photo of Al Cardenas flaunting her engagement ring and mentioned that he (Al Cardenas) was her BFF and she was proud of him.
After five months of their engagement, the couple shared their wedding vows on 3rd March at a waterfront venue in Miami Beach, Florida. Several high-profile identities including CNN’s Anderson Cooper and Don Lemon, Eva Longoria and others attended the grand marriage ceremony of the couple.
Anna Navarro with her husband, Al Cardenas at their wedding in 2019 (Photo: People.com)
Anna shared her feelings about her husband stating that he treats her like the princess with so much love and respect. Furthermore, she stated that her mother was in frail health for which she took the quick decision on marrying Al Cardenas as she wanted her mother present at her wedding.
Currently, the recently wedded couple relishes their married life happily creating smooth and healthy family circumstances.
Family Abandoned: Moved To The United States
Ana is the youngest child of her parents, Jose Augusto Navarro Flores and Violeta Flores Lopez. Her father was a former Nicaragua’s minister go agriculture. Her mother Violeta was adopted and raised by a pair named "Don" Daniel Flores Baca and "Dona" Margarita Lopez D’Arbelles.
Ana has an older sister and two brothers as her siblings. The family had permanently resided in the United States after a political turmoil in their hometown, Nicaragua in 1980. She belongs to a Nicaraguan ethnicity. However, she also has Spanish, African, and Costa Rican ancestry.
You Would Not Want To Miss: Mark Preston Wife, Married, Family, Children, Net Worth, Salary
Ana Navarro Bio
Ana was born on 28 December 1971 in Nicaragua, North America as per wiki. Her birth sign is Capricorn.
The Political Commentator went to the Carrollton School near Miami, Florida to complete her high school and obtained her graduate degree from the University of Miami. She received a Bachelor of Arts in Latin American Studies and Political Science in 1993. Other than that, she received a Juris Doctor from St. Thomas University Law School back in 1997.
Ana often jokes about her weight and confesses that fitting into the clothes, which doesn't fit makes her happy. In January 2018 in The View, she claimed that she is forever on dieting and will diet for the rest of life. To go through weight loss, she said that she is now practicing the Paleo Diet, which is a Caveman diet.
Back on 9 September 2013, stylist Stacey V. Brice applauded her weight loss. To which, she thanked Stacey for encouragement and also added that her diet routine sucks.