Monica Alba Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, NBC News
Monica Alba Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, NBC News
Posted by On 0 Comment
Monica Alba NBC
Monica Alba Biography – Wikipedia
This is what you need to know about Monica Alba, an American political reporter for NBC News in Washington D.C. She has covered President Trump and the 2020 campaign. For the first two years of the Trump administration, she worked as a White House producer, traveling extensively with the president domestically and overseas.
Monica Alba Age
Alba was born on August 25, 1987, in California. She celebrates her birthday on August 25 every year.
Monica Alba Height
Alba stands at a height of 5 feet 6 inches.
Monica Alba Family
Alba is a wife to Dan Merica and she was born to parents Manuel Alba, Mari Alba. She is blessed with a sister called Loreli.
Monica Alba Sister
Alba grew up with her sister, Loreli, in San Jose Monica and Loreli are of Mexican descent. Their late grandfather came to the U.S. from Mexico.
Monica Alba Husband
Alba is a wife to Dan Patrick Merica since 27th July 2019. The couple first met in Manchester, N.H., in August 2015 while covering Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. They have not shared if they have children or not.
Monica Alba Salary
Alba receives an annual average salary of $ 72,871. This is according to NBC News anchors/reporter’s salaries.
Monica Alba Net Worth
Alba has an estimated Net Worth of $ 100k – $ 100k dollars. Her career as a news anchor is her primary source of income.
Monica Alba Education
She completed her undergrad studies at the University of Southern California, attending from 2005 – 2009, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in broadcast journalism. She later attended Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism from 2011 – 2012, receiving an MS in documentary filmmaking.
Monica Alba NBC News
Alba is an American political reporter for NBC News in Washington D.C. She has covered President Trump and the 2020 campaign. For the first two years of the Trump administration, she worked as a White House producer, traveling extensively with the president domestically and overseas.
Before joining NBC, she followed Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail as an embedded reporter for 18 months. Before the 2016 election, she was an associate producer in the NBC Investigative Unit in New York City. She is also co-founded the Social Issues Documentary Film Contest, a film festival that requires high school students to produce short documentaries on social issues in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Monica Alba Twitter
https://twitter.com/albamonica