How the Telescope Changed Our Minds | WIRED
Betsy Mason
Science
Oct 2, 2008 12:54 PM
How the Telescope Changed Our Minds
By Ryan D. Tweney Four hundred years after its invention, the telescope has become an essential scientific instrument, an icon of science. But it is more than just an extension of our senses — the telescope is an instrument of thought as well. Throughout its 400-year history, the telescope has changed our view of the […]
By Ryan D. Tweney
Four hundred years after its invention, the telescope has become an essential scientific instrument, an icon of science.
But it is more than just an extension of our senses — the telescope is an instrument of thought as well. Throughout its 400-year history, the telescope has changed our view of the universe and our view of ourselves.
Never more so than at the very beginning. News of Hans Lippershey's 1608 patent reached Galileo Galilei the following year. Within one day, he had made his own telescope, and, in 1610, published a short, still very readable, book, Siderius Nuncius, (The Starry Messenger ). This remarkable work changed everything.
Galileo's telescope made clear that the universe was far larger than had been imagined — and our place in it far smaller than had been imagined.
The public impact was immediate. The poet John Donne, in 1611, wrote of "Galileo … who of late hath summoned the other world, the stars to come nearer to him, and give him an account of themselves." But this new other world, as Donne also saw, had a negative side. The old universe of unity and proportion, crowned by a perfect heaven scaled to human proportion, was threatened: "New philosophy calls all in doubt."
Today you can buy a better telescope than Galileo's for under a hundred dollars, and a careful replica of his telescope for a great deal more. An ordinary pair of binoculars will show just about all that he saw (DON'T try to use them to see the sunspots!). But you can only imagine how unsettling this modest instrument was in the early 17th century.
We now take for granted that science gives us otherwise invisible worlds. We have wonderful instruments that do this — the telescope, the microscope, fMRI brain scans, the Large Hadron Collider. We now see many invisible worlds: tiny bacteria in our water, shifting patterns of blood flow in the brain, submicroscopic particles (some hope) that haven't been seen since the first microseconds of the universe.
Some doubted what
Galileo had seen. Was this really observation? Or a trick of the instrument? Were the spots on the sun? Or on the lens?
Galileo was brilliant at answering these doubts partly because he was not merely revealing facts; instead, they were facts in the context of new theories about the universe, especially the Copernican theory, that the sun, not the Earth, was the center of the universe.
The old theory, that the universe centered on the earth, just could not be sustained in the face of the telescope's revelations.
These were hard questions then, just as hard questions today still cluster about science. How do we know that a black hole sits at the center of our galaxy? No light escapes from a black hole — we can only detect them by their effects on nearby matter. Telescopes are important in proving their existence, but the telescopes used are very different from Galileo's, and they carry their own burden of doubt, theory and proof.
Science isn't literal seeing. Instead, observation in science is something richer and more complex, a series of mental acts supported by inferences, experiments, suppositions, deductions and sometimes dense filigrees of arcane mathematical symbols. Galileo showed us mountains on the moon, but we only "see" them when we accept that the telescope is doing what it ought to do — magnifying while leaving the "real"
entities unchanged. You can accept the mountains as real only if you accept this principle, and this was hard for Galileo's contemporaries.
Here we touch upon the meaning of the telescope, and also upon the reason why its iconic value is appropriate. It was earth-shaking in its day and continues to be so today. It changed the way the universe looked (as science more generally has done, continually, for the 400
years since then).
But it required something from us as well — the need to learn about the telescope as an extension of our mind, not just our senses, before we can understand the things it shows us.
---
Ryan D. Tweney is an emeritus professor of psychology at Bowling Green State University, Ohio, and is the author of several books on scientific thinking. His recent research has focused on the scientific diaries and methods of Michael
Faraday. He is also the father of Wired.com's Gadget Lab editor Dylan Tweney.
See Also:
The Telescope: 400 Years and Counting
The Extremely Large Future of The Telescope
The True Anniversary of The Telescope?
Gallery: Giants of Earth and Space
A Stellar History: The Telescope Turns 400
Oct. 2, 1608: Up Close and Personal With Hans Lippershey
Oct. 3, 1947: Birth of Palomar's 'Giant Eye'
Son of Hubble, Prepare for a 2013 Liftoff
Show Us Your Favorite Telescope Photos