How to use timetable search / Route map / Train guide｜HOKKAIDO RAILWAY COMPANY
How to use timetable search / Route map / Train guide
Home
How to use timetable search / Route map / Train guide
How to use timetable search
List of station name
①Sapporo～Higashi-Muroran～Hakodate
②Sapporo～Asahikawa～Abashiri
③Sapporo～Asahikawa～Wakkanai
④Sapporo～Kushiro～Nemuro
⑤Sapporo～New Chitose Airport
⑥Sapporo～Otaru～Oshamambe
⑦Sapporo～Hokkaidō-Iryōdaigaku
⑧Asahikawa～Furano
⑨Kushiro～Abashiri
⑩Takikawa～Shintoku
⑪Iwamizawa～Tomakomai
⑫Tomakomai～Mukawa
⑬Fukagawa～Rumoi
Departure and arrival time, transfer information, and travel time etc can be searched by entering the station names of the section you will use. After typing the station name in English, the applicable station names will be displayed on the drop down list. Please select the “departure station” and “arrival station” from the drop down list. For more information, please see below. Notice of use
How to see search result screen
➊ Search result
➋ Ticket price (If you take a limited express train, the limited express charge is required in addition to basic fare.　It differs depending on the seat type. Please select the seat you wish to use and check the total amount.)
Ex. Sapporo-Hakodate
Basic fare: 6,270 yen
Green seat: 6,830 yen
Total: 13,100 yen
Reserved seat: 3,170 yen
Total: 9,440 yen
Non-reserved seat: 2,640 yen
Total: 8,910 yen
➌ Search again
You can only use English alphabet to type the station name on the "Search again" screen. If you wish to type in Chinese (traditional/simplified) or Korean, please go back to the top page.
Service for the Nemuro Line between “Higashi-Shikagoe” and “Shintoku” is temporarily suspended due to the aftereffects of the typhoon which occurred August, 2016. Please note that riders cannot travel on this portion of the line. Thank you for your understanding.
Notice of rail replacement bus service between Higashi-Shikagoe and Shintoku
Notice to Passengers Boarding Trains between Sapporo-Wakkanai, Sapporo-Abashiri
Notice on onboard sales
Route Map
JR Hokkaido Route Map
It is a route map which is described the sign and the number in parallel in the station name. (Example) S15-OTARU
Details PDF
Train Guide