Clifford - 3105X
Clifford 3105X
Security System
Clifford | Security | 3105X
1
2
Overview
Now featuring 4-button remotes, Control Center and XR+ receiver, this Clifford Matrix security system will surround your vehicle in protection, with the most sophisticated electronic technologies available today, including the Stinger® DoubleGuard® shock sensor, Revenger® six-tone siren and Failsafe® Starter Kill. This state-of-the-art system also offers in-demand convenience feature like keyless entry.
(2 Reviews)
Tweet
Features
Includes two 1-Way remotes
Up to 1/4 mile range*
Revenger® 6-tone siren
Clone-Safe® Code-Hopping®
Security and keyless entry system
2 Auxiliary Outputs
Stinger® DoubleGuard® Shock Sensor
Directed SmartStart Compatible
Where To Buy
Download 3105X Guide
Download Quick Reference Guide
*Range based on line-of-sight, unobstructed testing in ideal conditions. Actual range will vary due to local conditions including, but not limited to, environment, terrain, physical obstructions, vehicle location and orientation, interference and other possible impediments.
**Additional parts and labor may be required.
Technologies
ESP2
ESP2 is Directed's exclusive serial communications protocol that allows extra ultra-security, high-speed communication between systems and enables many of Directed's key features.
XR Plus
Directed Electronics recently made a significant performance upgrade to the RF receiver section of many of our award-winning security and remote start systems. The new XR+ Extreme Range superheterodyne receiver has an improved sensitivity specification of between 3 dB and 6 DB, which equates to a measurable range increase on the order of 15 percent. It also offers improved image rejection for certain types of RF interference, resulting in improved reliability.
SmartStart Compatible
If you already have a compatible Clifford remote start system in your car, the DSM300/DSM350 will add SmartStart capability to your system.
Now you can remote start or lock and unlock your car just by pushing a button on your Smartphone using the exciting new Clifford SmartStart app from Directed Electronics.
The simple graphical interface gives you control over the following features of your installed Clifford remote start or security/remote start system: Lock/arm, Unlock/disarm, Remote Start, Trunk release, Panic or car finder. You can also control multiple vehicles - great for families! - and assign more than one user to control a vehicle. It's easy with SmartStart!