Dana Bash Bio, Age, CNN, Nationality, Height, Family, Husband, Salary
Dana Bash Bio, Age, Wiki, CNN, Nationality, Height, Family, Husband, Salary, Net Worth, Awards
January 5, 2022 Mercy United States [USA] 0
Dana Bash
Dana Bash Biography
Dana Bash( born Dana Ruth Bash) is an American journalist and news anchor who now serves as CNN’s top political correspondent and co-host of the network’s Sunday morning newsmaker show, State of the Union with Jake Tapper and Dana Bash.
Dana Bash CNN News | Wikipedia
She is a CNN political correspondent, news anchor, and journalist from the United States. Bash joined CNN as a weekend producer for shows like Late Edition, Evans & Novak, and Inside Politics. Later on, she began producing programming devoted to Senate coverage in the United States.
Dana Bash Career
Dana Bash is CNN’s top political correspondent and co-anchor of the network’s Sunday morning newsmaker show, State of the Union with Jake Tapper and Dana Bash. Bash is based in Washington, D.C., where she covers campaigns and Congress and moderates CNN’s political town hall events. She also moderated CNN’s first 2020 election debate in Detroit, as well as the final Democratic Presidential Debate in Washington, D.C. Bash also hosted special election night coverage in the United States for the 2020 election, which lasted several days until CNN predicted Joe Biden as the winner. Bash has won the 2019 Sol Taishoff Award for Excellence in Journalism from the National Press Foundation.
In 2017, Bash launched her CNN series, Badass Women of Washington, which features women from a wide range of backgrounds and generations and shows how they have shattered glass ceilings on their way up the ranks. From the halls of Congress to the White House, Bash gets personal with some of the most powerful women in our nation’s capital.
Bash participated in six of CNN’s seven primetime presidential primary debates in 2016, serving as a questioner on both sides of the aisle in six of the network’s seven debates. Bash also co-anchors all election night specials from the CNN Election Center and is the principal fill-in anchor for Jake Tapper on CNN’s flagship political show, State of the Union. Bash has had sit-down interviews with the bulk of the contenders, including Donald Trump, Senators Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, and Bernie Sanders, and Governors Jeb Bush and John Kasich, as part of her coverage of the 2016 presidential elections. Furthermore.
Bash is also an important part of the network’s Capitol Hill coverage. She broke the news that House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy would not run for Speaker of the House on live television in 2015, and she also conducted Speaker John Boehner’s final interview on his last day in office. Bash also covered former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s 11-hour hearing before the House Select Committee on Benghazi as the lead correspondent. She was a significant part of CNN’s midterm Election Night in America coverage, reporting from the RNC, DNC, and CNN’s Election Center in Washington. Bash has secured a number of crucial interviews with senators, including a television exclusive with Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) to discuss his gay marriage proposal.
Prior to covering Congress and the 2008 campaign, Bash served as CNN’s White House reporter throughout President George W. Bush’s administration, reporting from the nation’s capital and several locations across the world. Bash has covered big issues such as Hurricane Katrina, the CIA leak inquiry, and Saddam Hussein’s capture. She was a key figure in CNN’s coverage of the 2006 midterm elections and the 2004 presidential campaign.
On Sept. 10, 2001, she broke the story of the government’s covert intercepts of Al Qaeda translations, for which she received the National Press Foundation’s first Everett McKinley Dirksen for Distinguished Reporting of Congress Award. In 2000, she traveled extensively with former Vice President Al Gore to cover the presidential primaries, including those in Iowa and New Hampshire.
READ MORE: John Vause Bio, Age, Wiki, CNN, Nationality, Height, Family, Wife, Salary, Net Worth
Bash formerly worked as an editor in CNN’s Washington bureau, where she assisted in the planning and coordination of the network’s coverage of Capitol Hill, the State Department, and important issues including Medicare and Social Security. Bash also produced long-form live interviews with heads of state, parliamentarians, and other newsmakers for numerous of the network’s public affairs programs, including Late Edition with Frank Sesno, Evans & Novak, and Inside Politics Weekend with Wolf Blitzer.
Dana Bash Age
How old is Bash? Bash is 50 years old as of 2021. She was born on 15 June 1971 in New York, New York, United States. She celebrates her birthday on the 15th of June every year.
Dana Bash Education
Bash went to Montvale, New Jersey’s Pascack Hills High School. She graduated with honors from George Washington University with a bachelor’s degree in political communications.
Dana Bash Nationality | Ethnicity
What ethnicity is Bash? she belongs to the white ethnicity/heritage. Bash was born and raised in New York, New York, United States. She holds American nationality.
Dana Bash Height
Bash stands at a height of 5 feet 2 inches (1.57 m).
Dana Bash Family
Bash Schwartz was born and raised in New York, New York is, the son of Frances (née Weinman) Schwartz, a Jewish studies author and educator, and Stuart Schwartz, the creator of ABC News and a senior broadcast producer for Good Morning America. Her grandmother, Lela Swift, was a television director and editor, and her great-uncle, Seymour Siwoff, was a baseball statistician. She grew up in New Jersey, near Washington, D.C.
Dana Bash Husband | Married
Bash was married to Jeremy Bash, from 1998 to 2007, she was to become Chief of Staff of the CIA and Chief of Staff of the Department of Defense under President Barack Obama. In 2008, she married fellow CNN correspondent J ohn King and later divorced in 2012. Bash gave birth to a son, Jonah King, in June 2011.
Dana Bash Salary
How much does she earn? Bash earns an annual salary ranging between $40,000 – $ 110,500.
Dana Bash Net Worth
Bash has an estimated net worth of $6 million which she has earned through being CNN’s chief political correspondent.
Dana Bash Award
News & Documentary Emmy Award for Outstanding Live Coverage of a Current News Story – Long Form and Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Morning Program.
Previous
Jake Tapper Bio, Age, Wiki, CNN, Height, Ethnicity, Family, Wife, Salary, Net Worth, Books
Next
Amanda Grove Bio, Age, Wiki, CourtTV, Ethnicity, Height, Family, Husband, Salary, Net Worth