Clifford Smartstart Bournemouth Poole Ringwood Brockenhurst New Forest Guildford Godalming Hindhead Liphook Farnham Alton Petersfield Horndean Bishops Waltham Southampton Portsmouth Chichester Hampshire West Sussex
home
›
remote start
›
clifford smartstart
Clifford SmartStart
We provide  Clifford  SmartStart fitted for Hampshire and West Sussex areas with mobile  installation to your door. This premium engine remote start system allows you to start,  control or locate your car from virtually anywhere using your smartphone, all  achieved through a downloadable App and annual subscription.
£ 499* (see notes below)
Annual subscription  is £99 per vehicle, per year.
Remote Car Starter
This remote car starter is ideal for  customers with high value or cherish vehicles where quick notification is the key  objective. The system runs on top of a compatible Clifford or Viper remote start car alarm and managed through a downloadable App. This can be downloaded via the App Store or Google Play store, for modern iOS, Android or BlackBerry devices.
With the App customers can remote start, lock or unlock their car via  touchscreen on their phone, with the possibility of controlling multiple vehicles  from a single phone for ease of use. The GPS on this system also performs as a  self-monitoring tracking system with Geo-Fence facility and overspeed alerts.
Should a vehicle alarm go off then the App takes over your phone. By taking priority from all current mobile  phone use, the system ensures customers are aware the alarm has gone off and needs  to be dealt with.
Clifford Alarm or Viper SmartStart
The SmartStart product is often branded as a Clifford alarm and sometimes as Viper SmartStart  due to it being an American product that is sold in the US differently. 'Directed' is the parent company, who own both  Viper and Clifford brands, and they are  slowly phasing out the Clifford name which is mostly sold in the UK. SmartStart is always the same product, however the  name on the box could be Clifford, Viper or Directed, and will equally work with  any engine remote start alarm from  one of these three.
How the SmartStart App Works
The SmartStart App is very intuitive with visual buttons and associated  words informing you what they do. At the bottom of the screen, there are extra  buttons for navigation between different pages for the Home screen, Alerts  page, Cars page, GPS page, and More settings page.
From the Home screen there is the lock icon or unlock icon with a confirmation  message received by the phone. In the middle stands the remote start icon allowing  the vehicle engine to be started by a tap. The engine  stays running until turned off or  the designated run-time is reached (if fitted). The boot release (if fitted) can  also be activated from this screen and the panic mode will sound the alarm for  30 seconds, or until the feature is turned off.
The Alerts page gives the most recent alerts.
The GPS screen works in the same way as a self-tracking monitoring  system giving vehicle location, Geo-fence in or outside warnings and overspeed  alerts if set.
The Cars page allows customers to use the same App to monitor different vehicles.
The More page allows customers to access extra features such as help, settings and customise.
* System may require additional modules and/or extra fitting, please enquire for full price.
Follow the instructions from the Clifford site to download the Clifford Smartstart App.
Compatible Viper 586vi remote car starter vehicle alarm with LCD remote.
Alternative product:
Clifford Blackjax immobiliser.
Pandora Elite car alarm system with remote start.
We can provide Clifford Smartstart fitted Bournemouth, Poole, Ringwood,  Brockenhurst, New Forest, Guildford, Godalming, Hindhead, Liphook, Farnham, Alton, Petersfield,  Horndean, Bishops Waltham, Southampton, Portsmouth, Chichester, Hampshire and West  Sussex areas.