Lauren Fox (CNN) Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Net Worth - Wealthy Spy
Lauren Fox (CNN) Biography
June 16, 2021
Lauren Fox is a CNN Congressional Correspondent and famous media person. She previously worked at Talking Points Memo, National Journal, and U.S. News as a political reporter. Lauren has previously reported all the work done by Congress for the betterment and reforming of the country that includes health care, gun policy, and immigration.
Early life
Lauren Fox was born on November 4, 1988, and grew up in five different states before settling down in Washington DC. Her father’s name is David fox and her mother’s information is still mysterious. Other than her father’s name there are no other details about other family members including her siblings as well. She completed her schooling in the year 2007. Lauren graduated from the University of Oregon with majors in journalism. She holds a master’s degree from Johns Hopkins University in creative notification.
Lauren Fox Career
Same as other students after graduation, Lauren kicked off her career with an internship in Snowden, a Portland Monthly magazine. She later became part of the register guard as a general assignment reporter. There she covered crime, city council, school board meetings, local artists, the University of Oregon, and once held medieval festival. She joined U.S. News and World Report in august 2011 as a congressional reporter. There she spent most of her time reporting on how the implementation of the affordable care act was hindering rural communities, their politics, and border vigilantes.
She joined National Journal as a political reporter in October 2014. Lauren articulated news regarding fights over planned parenthood funding, criminal justice reform, immigration, budgets. She specifically reported about Paul Ryan’s rise to the speakership. Fox joined CNN in February 2017. She joined as a reporter who covered federal agencies and congress. Before joining CNN, fox served as a reporter for the Talking Points Memo based in Washington D.C. Metro Area. She broke news about how President-elect Trump will coordinate work with congress and everything in between. Lauren is currently engaged with CNN and there is no information about her further plans or upcoming projects.
Social Media
Lauren has an Instagram account with 6366 followers. She has a verified Twitter account with 44.7K followers and also a LinkedIn profile with 6 listed jobs. She is more active on Instagram in comparison to other social media platforms.
Lauren Fox Biography
Real Name
Lauren M. Fox
Birth Date
November 4, 1988
Age (as of 2021)
31 Years
Residence
Washington D.C., USA
Nationality
American
Profession
Congressional Correspondent
Religion
Christianity
Sun sign
Scorpio
Physical Statistics
Height
in feet inches – 5’ 9” – in Centimeters – 175 cm
Weight
in Kilograms – 66 kg  – in Pounds –  145 lbs
Body Measurements
33-25-35
Bra Size
32B
Waist Size
25 Inches
Hips Size
35 Inches
Shoe Size
8 (U.S.)
Hair Color
Dark Brown
Eye Color
Brown
Body Type
Slim
Family
Father
David Fox
Mother
–
Sister
–
Brother
–
Qualification/Education
School
–
College
University of Oregon, University of Hopkins
Relationship Status
Marital Status
Married
Affair
No
Is she Lesbian?
No
Who is her Husband?
Kevin Clark
Children
–
Personal Life
Fox married Kellin Clark on 6th February 2016. He is a legislative assistant for senator Jon tester. They dated in high school and were called high school sweethearts. So far, the couple is enjoying their married life to the fullest doesn’t have any kids yet.
Lauren Fox Net Worth
She has an estimated net worth of $1 million. It’s a fact that CNN reports earn around $50K manually. Thus, CNN’s salary adds a handsome amount of money to her account. Other than that, she earned a salary amount of $103,320 while working at different places. Another fortune amount in net worth is still under process.
Trivia
Despite her popularity, Lauren is yet to be featured on Wikipedia however, her bio is listed on the official CNN page.
She grew up in five different states including Indiana, Panama, Minnesota, North Dakota, Montana, Oregon, and now resides in Washington, D.C.
Her work has always appeared in Salon and Atlantic.com.
She used to report about capitol hill on U.S. news which became a breakthrough for her career.
Fox had developed strong affection towards reading and writing when she was a child.