Daniella Diaz CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary and Net Worth
Daniella Diaz CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary and Net Worth
Ann JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Daniella Diaz Biography, Wiki
Daniella Diaz is a popular American journalist. Currently, she is serving at CNN as a political reporter. Previously, Daniella served as a web producer at politico where she covered breaking news. In addition, she worked at NBC News investigative unit. She also worked as a web producer at POLITICO from June 2014 to February 2015. While at POLITICO, Daniella optimized and produced the breaking news.
Daniella Diaz Age | Birthday
She was born on December 22, 1992, in the Rio Grande Valley, Texas in the United States. Daniella is 27 years old.
Daniella Diaz Height
She is a woman of average stature. Daniella stands at a height of 5 ft 3 in (Approx 1.6 m).
Daniella Diaz Parents
She was born and raised in the Rio Grande Valley, Texas in the United States by her father and mother. However, Daniella has not mentioned any details concerning either her parents or if she has siblings.
Diaz’s photo
Daniella Diaz Husband
She is dating though Daniella had posted a picture with her alleged boyfriend named John Jay in 2019. However, it seemed the two were enjoying each other’s company. Currently, Daniella deleted most of the photos with John because several viewers might speculate that they are not together. As of now, there are no details showing if John and Daniella are still together.
Daniella Diaz education
After completing her primary and high school education, Daniella attended Texas Campus from 2010 t0 2014. Later on, she graduated with a bachelor of arts in both mass communication and Media studies. In addition, while in college Daniella studied abroad in Istanbul, Turkey.
Daniella Diaz Cnn
She began gaining journalism experiences even before her graduation. In 2012, Daniella joined The Monitor as an intern general assignments reporter. Serving for only 3 months, Daniella shifted to The Pan American newspaper. At first as a news editor and later on, as a co-editor-in-chief. She has started her professional career at Pan American. She moved to San Antonio Express-News after gaining 10 months of experience from UTPA. Daniella began working as an intern education reporter from June 2013 to August the same year.
Later on, in August 2018, she began serving at CNN. Daniella served at CNN as a digital producer, a breaking news reporter, and digital congressional reporter. As of now, she serves as a campaign embed. Throughout her journalism career on CNN, Daniella has served with many other famous journalists, including Jeff Zeleny and Clarissa Ward.
Daniella’s colleagues at CNN include:
Jessica Schneider – anchor
Mary Katharine Ham -contributor
Leyla Santiago – anchor
Andy Scholes – sports anchor
Rosa Flores – anchor
Hilary Rosen – political reporter
Blake Essig – reporter
Nima Elbagir – anchor
John Vause – anchor
Blake Essig – investigative reporter
Maegan Vazquez – reporter
Tom Foreman – anchor
Brian Stelter – anchor
Daniella Diaz Salary
She is a Cnn political correspondent. However, Daniella earns a decent salary as a Cnn political anchor and reporter. Daniella’s average salary is $71,211 per year.
Daniella Diaz Net Worth
She is a CNN Political anchor and reporter. Therefore, Daniella has accumulated a decent fortune over the years. Daniella’s estimated net worth is $711,101.
How Old Is Daniella Diaz
She is a 27-year-old. Daniella was born on December 22, 1992, in the Rio Grande Valley, Texas in the United States.
Is Daniella Diaz Married
She is dating though Daniella had posted a picture with her alleged boyfriend named John Jay in 2019. It seemed the two were enjoying each other’s company. Currently, Daniella deleted most of the photos with John because several viewers might speculate that they are not together. As of now, there are no details showing if John and Daniella are still together.
Who Is Daniella Diaz
She is a popular American journalist. Currently, she is serving at CNN as a political reporter. Previously, Daniella served as a web producer at politico where she covered breaking news. In addition, she worked at NBC News investigative unit.
Daniella Diaz Instagram
Diaz Twitter
Max Foster CNN, Bio, Age, Height, Family, Wife, Education, Salary, and Net Worth
Drew Griffin CNN, Bio, Age, Height, Family, Wife, Education, Salary, and Net Worth