Trustpilot Widget
Home
SECURITY
CAR REMOTE START SYSTEMS
Clifford Clifford 5204X Responder LE 2-Way Security/Remote Start System
CLIFFORD
Clifford Clifford 5204X Responder LE 2-Way Security/Remote Start System
£299.99
SKU:
5204X
Weight:
1.00 LBS
Shipping:
Calculated at checkout
Quantity:
Product Description
Introducing the Ultimate 2-Way Hybrid Security & Remote Start System, Responder LE. The Evolution of Responder: Smaller, Sleeker, Smarter. These are Directed's smallest, thinnest, most advanced 2-Way remote controls ever, operating a state-of-the-art, data enabled 2-Way security and remote start hybrid that will install faster with fewer wires, and best-in-world vehicle integration, operation and performance. That's Responder LE!
DESIGN & FORM FACTOR
Directed's elegant new Responder LE transceivers mark a giant leap forward in 21st century vehicle security and remote start, and an evolutionary milestone for the keychain remote. These are Directed's thinnest, most advanced 2-Way remote controls ever, with a clean sleek ergonomic industrial design, made to fit the user's hand comfortably, enabling effortless and intuitive single-handed operation.
The tactile and aesthetic qualities of these new remotes are remarkable – cool and soft to the touch, with subtle colors (Ghost Platform grey front surfaces, Velvet Onyx™ soft black on the reverse, Midnight Charcoal™ flat black buttons, Obsidian Gloss™ black bezels).
Inside, the simple user interface is powered by an 8 MHz microprocessor running the SuperCode™ protocol for advanced, software-based digital encryption and function control. There has never been a remote more intuitive, comfortable, and easy to use!
TECHNOLOGY & FUNCTIONALITY
Your customers are going to love the way the Responder LE remote feels in their hand, and the many state-of-the-art system features they can access with ease, starting with the new paging-only Silent Mode2™ feature, which allows users to turn off the siren and receive notification on the remote only. With Silent Mode2, the vehicle silently alerts the user that the alarm has triggered.
Here are some other features we've added to make Responder LE a milestone in 2-Way hybrids:
Extreme 2,000 feet FCC legal 2-Way range
Simple new universal icons
Longer battery life – 3 to 6 months
Microprocessor function control, powered by an 8 MHz microprocessor running SuperCode™ software-based encryption
Real Status using GhostLights – check the vehicle temperature and run time remaining using the LEDs on the remote
Soft Touch surfaces for comfortable tactile sensation
Manual Transmission remote start enabled for the millions of stick shift vehicles
Responder
LE is destined to become the new reference standard for 2-Way hybrid vehicle security & remote start systems. It will protect your customer's vehicle and its contents, start the engine with the push of a button from the comfort of either home or office, and confirm all commands with GhostLight™ LEDs. And it will do it all with unparalleled elegance, style and intuitive one-handed operation. That's Responder LE!
Technical Specifications
Built-in Turbo Timer
Includes One LED 2-Way Transceiver, One 5-button Transmitter
Confirms commands and system triggers using flashing LEDs
Super Bright LED System Status Indicator
4 Auxiliary Outputs
24-channel remote start / security / keyless entry system
Anti-Grind
Dome Light Supervision
Defroster Output
Horn Honk
SuperCode™
Stinger® DoubleGuard® Shock Sensor
Revenger® Six-Tone Siren
Parking Light Flash
Built-in XCR™ (Extreme Capacity Relay Satellite)
Comfort Closure
Failsafe® Starter Kill
2-Way SuperCode LED Remote Start System
Winner of the 2009 CES Innovations Award, Responder One
SuperCode
SuperCode is the technology that defines the functionality of Responder and the intelligence that drives its advanced features. Its protocol encompasses software-based system signal encryption (replacing hardware-based Clone Safe Code-Hopping). Multi-car operation is designed into the SuperCode protocol, so users will have all of the possible operations for two cars controllable by one remote.
2-way confirmations and notifications of many different events and commands have been designed into SuperCode, so all SuperCode-enabled 2-way systems can tell the user more about their vehicle than any other system on the market.
Fitting
Please note this retail price EXCLUDES labour
Installed price from £499.99 depending on vehicle (remote start has to be purchased from us). Please email/phone to clarify and to arrange an installation date at our Peterborough workshop
This item is guaranteed for one year parts & labour ONLY if installed by ourselves.
As these items can be installed DIY and are prone to abuse, any faulty products/parts which have not been installed by ourselves MUST be returned back to us for examination before we can decide upon replacement or repair.
Product Reviews
Write Review
This product hasn't received any reviews yet. Be the first to review this product!
Find Similar Products by Category
SECURITY
CAR REMOTE START SYSTEMS