Joan Biskupic Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Net Worth, CNN, Books
Joan Biskupic Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Net Worth, CNN, Books
Posted by On 0 Comment
Joan Biskupic Photo
Joan Biskupic Biography
This is what you need to know about Joan Biskupic, an American journalist, author, and lawyer. She works at CNN as a full-time Supreme Court analyst. Biskupic has covered the United States Supreme Court for more than 30 years. In addition, she has written several books on the Supreme Court and biographies of Supreme Court Justices.
Joan Biskupic Age
How old is Joan? Biskupic was born in 1956 in the United States of America.
Joan Biskupic Height
Biskupic’s height is still under review.
Joan Biskupic Family
Biskupic is a wife to Clay Lewis and she was born to a Catholic family of Croatian and Irish descent. She has eight siblings. Her siblings include five sisters, Donna Biskupic, Carol Biskupic, Sharon, Elaine Biskupic, Nancy Biskupic, and three brothers, Steven Biskupic, Vincent Biskupic, and James Biskupic. Her brother, Steven Biskupic, born in 1961, is a former U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Additionally, Vincent Biskupic is a judge on the Outagamie Circuit Court.
Read Also;
Wolf Blitzer Bio, Age, Height, Family, Wife, Daughter, Net Worth, Salary, CNN
This is what you need to know about Wolf Blitzer, an American news journalist, television news anchor, and author. He has also worked as a CNN reporter since 1990 and also worked as the network’s lead political anchor.
The Famous Data
Joan Biskupic Married
Biskupic got married to her husband, Clay Lewis. They got married under a chuppah and invited their loved ones to a private ceremony. The couple is blessed with one kid called Elizabeth Lewis. The family resides in Northwest Washington, D.C.
Joan Biskupic Education
Biskupic went to study for her high school diploma at Benet Academy. She also received her B.A. degree in Journalism from Marquette University. She also attended the University of Oklahoma where she received her M.A. degree in English. She also graduated with a J.D. degree from Georgetown University Law Center.
Joan Biskupic CNN
Before joining CNN, she previously worked as a news editor-in-charge for Legal Affairs at Reuters. She has also worked as the Supreme Court correspondent for the Washington Post and for USA Today. At CNN, she works as a full-time Supreme Court analyst.
Prior to working in CNN, she worked as Editor in Charge, Legal Affairs for Reuters from 2012 to 2016. Biskupic was a visiting professor at the University of California, Irvine’s School of Law for the 2016–2017 academic year. She also worked as the Legal Affairs Correspondent for USA Today from 2000 to 2012.
Joan Biskupic Books
The Supreme Court Yearbook 1989–1990, Congressional Quarterly (1991)
American Original: The Life and Constitution of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Farrar, Straus, and Giroux (2009)
The Supreme Court Yearbook 1990–1991, Congressional Quarterly (1992)
The Supreme Court Yearbook 1991–1992, Congressional Quarterly (1992)
Guide to the US Supreme Court, with Elder Witt, 3rd edition, Congressional Quarterly (1996).
Joan Biskupic Net Worth
Biskupic has an estimated net worth of $ 10 million. She credits her income which is mainly attributed to her successful career as a news journalist.
Read Also;
Michelle Fields Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Salary, FOX News
This is what you need to know about Michelle Fields, an American news Journalist in politics. She is better known for writing for The Huffington Post. Before, she worked as a reporter for Breitbart News and was also a contributor for Fox News.
The Famous Data