▷ Si Spain | Luxury Golf Resorts & Beach Properties
20 º Alicante
Home
About
Properties
Area Info
Blog
Viewing Trips
Contact us
Menu
Spain´s No.1 NEW-BUILD PROPERTY SPECIALIST
1000´s of Properties one single source
100´s of Stunning Golf & Beach Resorts
350km of Coastline Costa Blanca - Murcia - Almería
100% Free Service & Luxury Viewing Trips
Quick Search
Apartment Detached Villa Semi Detached/Linked Villa Townhouse/Terraced
Costa Almeria Costa Blanca South Murcia & Costa Cálida
Aguilas Cartagena Fuente Alamo Guardamar & Vega Baja Los Alcazares Mazarron Murcia Orihuela Costa Pilar De La Horadada San Javier & San Pedro Del Pinatar Villaricos
Clear filters
More Search Options
Save your searches
Key Ready
Go! (
Properties
)
Luxury viewing trips
Find out more
Golf Resort Properties
View more
Beach Properties
View more
Premium Properties
View more
Search Properties on Map
View more
Featured Properties
View all properties
Ref: SJAV NAL JACINTO DV 4B
San Javier Town · Murcia & Costa Cálida
Detached Villa · For sale
Mtrs: 235m 2
Plot: 400m 2
Bed: 4
Bath: 4
Pool
€ 595,000
Ref: SR GU ELISA SDV 3B
Beach Resort
Walk To Beach
Santiago De La Ribera · Murcia & Costa Cálida
Semi Detached/Linked Villa · For sale
Mtrs: 94m 2
Plot: 120m 2
Bed: 3
Bath: 2
Pool
From
€ 299,950
Ref: CABP NAL YUKA DV 3B
Sea Views
Cabo De Palos · Murcia & Costa Cálida
Detached Villa · For sale
Mtrs: 255m 2
Plot: 500m 2
Bed: 3
Bath: 3
Pool
€ 1,950,000
Ref: CABP NAL YUKA DV 5B
Sea Views
Cabo De Palos · Murcia & Costa Cálida
Detached Villa · For sale
Mtrs: 585m 2
Plot: 1,000m 2
Bed: 5
Bath: 7
Pool
€ 3,950,000
Ref: AV  AL3 TH 3B
Avileses · Murcia & Costa Cálida
Townhouse/Terraced · For sale
Mtrs: 107m 2
Plot: 106m 2
Bed: 3
Bath: 2
Pool
Garage
From
€ 176,000
Ref: SP WH RN DV 3B
Beach Resort
Walk To Beach
Santiago De La Ribera · Murcia & Costa Cálida
Detached Villa · For sale
Mtrs: 220m 2
Plot: 194m 2
Bed: 3
Bath: 3
Pool
Garage
From
€ 449,000
Spain´s No.1 New Build Property Specialist
Who are Si Spain?
Si Spain is a leading, new-build, property specialist based in Southeast Spain. We partner with over 100 of Spain´s very best, new-home builders, to give you access to 1000´s of stunning, new, villas and apartments, all from a single, independent, impartial source. We operate across 350km of Spain´s Southern Coastline and provide an unrivalled choice of more than 200 beach, city and golf resort locations throughout the Costa Calida (Murcia), Alicante and Almeria.  Visit our “About Us” page to discover more about us and see how our unique service offering will help you find, buy and set up your new place in the sun whilst saving you time, energy and money.
Find out more about us
Why choose Si Spain?
We are Spain´s premier, new-build property specialist
We can provide you with access to 1000´s of new-build apartments and villas from one single source
We have more than 200 unique beach, city, residential and golf resort locations to choose from
We cover around 350km of coastline including the entire Costa Blanca, Murcia and Almeria.
Our independent, consultancy based approach ensures you ALWAYS receive 100% impartial advice and guidance
We can arrange tailored viewing trips or if you prefer, we are also happy to come and meet with you in your home country
Find out more about how we work
Recent Area
and Market News
11 Jan 2021
Introducing La Sella Golf & Spa Resort
See all News Posts
Stay Informed
Leave your name and email below and we´ll keep you up to date with all new property listings and area information
Check the box to contact us and agree to your information being used according to our Privacy Policy you will automatically be added to our mailing list, but you can opt out at any time *
Responsable del tratamiento: Sí Spain Property Consultants, SL, Finalidad del tratamiento: Gestión y control de los servicios ofrecidos a través de la página Web de Servicios inmobiliarios, Envío de información a traves de newsletter y otros, Legitimación: Por consentimiento, Destinatarios: No se cederan los datos, salvo para elaborar contabilidad, Derechos de las personas interesadas: Acceder, rectificar y suprimir los datos, solicitar la portabilidad de los mismos, oponerse altratamiento y solicitar la limitación de éste, Procedencia de los datos: El Propio interesado, Información Adicional: Puede consultarse la información adicional y detallada sobre protección de datos Aquí .
It´s good to talk! Leave us your number and we´ll gladly call you to discuss your plans directly.
Contact us
New property Alert
Be the first to find out about new property listings
Find out more
Free detailed Buying guide
Everything you need to know about buying a new property in Spain
Find out more
What our client say
Really impressed with Craig from Si Spain, very professional and genuine, he went above and beyond, as you can imagine we had a lot of questions and worries about the buying process in Spain, but Craig was always there to reassure us. Which made our first purchase in Spain trouble free. We would...
Linda & Phil Moss
Met Craig from SI Spain and immediately felt relaxed, we had already discussed an itinerary of where we would like to settle and the kind of villa's we were interested in, so when we met he had quite a few places for us to view, and over the next 2 days nothing was to much trouble, he...
Mike & Lorraine Kay
Craig was very helpful at helping us purchase in Spain. He was extremely knowledgeable about the various areas and the spent the time to understand what would suit us. We would definitely recommend.
Anthony & Sabina Coleman
Craig was a great help, advising every step of the way through the purchase and afterwards. Just over a year later we are very happy with our property in Spain and the service Craig provided.
Matthew & Karen Payne
Craig from Si Spain was as big a find as our Place in the Sun! We purchased the property in November and concluded by the end of December. Craig was with us from the start to the end of the process and beyond. The villa required work to be undertaken and Craig arranged these works whilst we were...
Mike & Pam Floyd
We were very pleased with the service we got from Si Spain. We met Craig and went to se the apartment we had seen on the internet. It was not for us. Craig asked if we be interested in looking at other apartments. We went to see some that we really liked and the best thing was WE WERE NOT...
Alan & Juliana Harper
It had been a constant worry buying aboard the unknown and the language barrier , did we do adequate checks , SI Spain removed all the doubt with an extensive knowledge of the Spanish market and legality's , viewing was a pleasure rather than a chore , SI Spain did absolutely everything , I can...
Roy Bradley
See all testimonials
Why choose new-build over second- hand?
Firstly, comparative new-build and second-hand properties in Spain are often very similarly priced.
There are also many additional costs to consider with a second-hand property. It may need a new kitchen or bathrooms and there could be hidden issues with the heating, plumbing or electrics.
In addition to the recent, revolution in Spanish property design we have also seen major improvements in the quality of materials used in new build properties here in Spain.
Unlike older properties, new properties in Spain are now designed to be as open, light and airy as possible.  UV resistant glazing, modern insulation and more efficient heating and AC systems also means your brand-new Spanish property won´t just be a much nicer place to be, it will also cost far less to run and maintain.
If you buy off-plan, you can also fully personalise your new place in the sun. You can select your ideal kitchen, bathroom suites and tiles and can often make changes to room distribution, pool design or external landscaping.
Finally, a brand-new property, designed and built to your own personal specification which is entirely yours and has only ever been yours just feels far more special.
View our properties