Angela Rye - Bio, Age, Net Worth, Height, Single, Nationality, Body Measurement, Career
Biographymask
Political Commentator
Angela Rye
Angela Rye
Political Commentator
#8213
Most Popular
Boost
Updated On July 11, 2021
Birthday
Oct 26,  1979
Birthplace
Seattle, Washington, DC , United States of America
Age
42 years
Birth Sign
Scorpio
Full Name:
Angela Rye
Born Date:
26 Oct, 1979
Age:
42 years
Horoscope:
Scorpio
Lucky Number:
8
Lucky Stone:
Garnet
Lucky Color:
Purple
Best Match for Marriage:
Capricorn, Cancer, Pisces
Gender:
Female
Profession:
Political Commentator, CEO
Country:
United States of America
Height:
5 feet 9 inches (1.75m)
Marital Status:
single
Break Up
Common
Net Worth
$2 million
Eye Color
Dark Brown
Hair Color
Black
Body Size
34-25-35
Birth Place
Seattle, Washington, DC
Nationality
American
Religion
Christianity
Education
Seattle University School of Law
Father
Eddie Rye
Mother
Andrea Rye
Facebook
Angela Rye Facebook
Twitter
Angela Rye Twitter
Youtube
Angela Rye Youtube
Instagram
Angela Rye Instagram
Personal Web
Angela Rye Personal Web
IMDB
Angela Rye IMDB
Wiki
Angela Rye Wiki
View more / View less Facts of Angela Rye
Angela Rye is a sassy political commentator of CNN and a political analyst with National Public Radio. Angela Rye is often called “Beyonce of CNN”. She is the Principal and CEO of IMPACT Strategies. It is an advocacy firm based in Washington, DC.
Table of Biography[show]
Early life and Childhood
Angela Rye was born in Seattle, Washington, DC on October 26, 1979, and she is 41 years old now. Rye follows Christianity as her main religion. Her zodiac sign is Scorpio. Rye is multiracial and by nationality, she is an American. It is believed that she was named after Black Panther activist Angela Davis.
Her father Eddie Rye was born in 1940. He is an activist in the Seattle Community. Likewise, her father is also a small business consultant. Likewise, her mother’s name is Andrea Rye. Angela’s mother is a retired college administrator. Angela doesn’t have any siblings. Furthermore, Angela considers ‘Charlamagne Tha God’ her spiritual brother.
She has always been passionate about making a constructive and positive difference. Rye regards her mother as a source of inspiration. Likewise, Angela Davis and Maxine Waters have an influence on her. Talented Rye attended Holy Names Academy. It is the Catholic private all-girls college preparatory school. Further, in 2002, she graduated in BA from the University of Washington. Angela earned a Juris Doctorate from Seattle University School of Law in 2005.
Caption: Family photo of Angela Rye, Source: Instagram
Professional Life
Professionally, Angela Rye is an American attorney and the Principal and CEO of IMPACT Strategies, a political advocacy firm in Washington, DC.
For the National Black Law Students Association, Rye had served as Western Regional Director. She was studying law at that time. Similarly, Angela worked at the District Office of Congressman Maxine Waters. Rye commenced her career in legislative advocacy at the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education. Precisely, she served as Coordinator of Advocacy and Legislative Affairs there.
Rye co-founded IMPACT in 2006. It is a non-profit organization that encourages young professionals mainly in economic empowerment, civic engagement, and political involvement. When Rye was in charge, IMPACT created a partnership with the National Bar Association. Likewise, the National Urban League is also in partnership with IMPACT. Since then, Angela is a part of a board of all those organizations. She also worked as the Senior Advisor and Counsel to the House Committee on Homeland security. Her work tenure was for four years, from 2007 to 2010.
Further, Rye has so far been featured as an influential politico, lawyer, and advocate by several publications and outlets such as Marie Claire, Ebony, and the Washington Post. She has a firm commitment to ensuring positive change in the political process.
Similarly, Angela is a prominent strategist and she has offered on-air commentary for several media outlets. Some media she has associated includes BET, CNN, NBC, HBO, ABC, MSNBC and TV One. Further, the depth of her dialogue expands to a variety of issues. It ranges from political campaigns to more complex legislation and administration policies. Her dialogue includes policies that have long-term implications on a national and international level.
After 2011
Furthermore, he was the Executive Director of the Black Congress. In 2013, she founded IMPACT Strategies based in Washington, DC and also it’s Principal. It is an advocacy firm in the nation’s capital. Unfolding about her firm, it has a laser focus on solutions orientation. Also, it knows exactly what it takes to be successful in today’s political environment.
Likewise, in ‘The Seattle University School of Law Alumni’, she is serving on board. ‘Women in Entertainment Empowerment Network’ and ‘Wilberforce University’ are others to name a few in which she is serving as a board member.
Moreover, Rye is also a member of The Links, Incorporated and  National Bar Association. Angela is on board of The American Bar Association and the Washington Government Relations Group. Furthermore, in Congressional Black Caucus, Rye is the Executive director and her role is to develop the overall legislative and political strategy for the Caucus. Angela is also General Counsel to CBC.
She is currently working as a political commentator on CNN and NPR Political Analyst. Also, Angela was the Senior Advisor and Counsel to the House Committee on Homeland Security She worked under the leadership of Congressman Bennie G. Thompson during her time as the Senior Advisor and Counsel.
Caption: Angela Rye as commemoration speaker at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Source: Instagram
Awards and Net Worth
Angela Rye has been awarded a plethora of honors and awards. ‘Leader of the Year Award’, ‘2013 Howard University CDA Progressive Young Leader Award’, are the awards that show her efficiency in leadership. Furthermore, in 2015, she received the honor of ‘Fortune’s 40 Under 40 Women to Watch’.
Moreover, her other notable awards include the ‘Seattle University African-American Alumni Award’,  CDA Progressive Young Leader Award, and many others. Reflecting on her net worth, Angela Rye has multiple sources of income. IMPACT Strategies is her main source of income. She earns $200 thousand dollars annually from CNN and other channels like BET. As of now, her net worth has reached $2 million US dollars.
Relationship Status
The political analyst, Angela was dating Common for two years. Common is an American rapper and songwriter. However, their relationship couldn’t work and ended after 2 years. They parted ways in good terms. Further, workaholic Rye is supposedly dating restauranteur and activist, Karim Webb. But their relationship status is unclear yet.
Body Measurements and Social Media
The news correspondent has an average weight of 54 kg. Talking more on her body measurements, Angela is of an average height of 5 feet and 9 inches. She has a slim build with the body measurements of 34-25-35 inches. Angela has beautiful black curly hair. Likewise, her dark brown eyes make her gorgeous with new hair and dressing style.
Caption: Angela Rye posing for a photo, Source: Instagram
Angela has been using social media as a weapon to express her views on every aspect. Her Instagram account’s followers count up to 1.3 Million. Likewise, Rye has garnered 393.4K followers on Twitter with username,@angela_rye. Similarly, her Facebook account has almost 490.1k followers. Her Facebook page has got more than 446k likes. Likewise, her youtube channel has 50.1k subscribers. Further, she joined Twitter in April 2009 and as of March 2020, her Instagram has 3202 posts.
More Political Commentator
Neera Tanden
Angela Rye Fans Also Viewed
Liz Shanahan
Laro Benz
Roxy Sternberg
Lorrie Morgan
Rod Gardner
Jon Heder
October 26 Birthdays
Jaime Adler
Rod Gardner