Disposable Cigarette Filters | Amber, White & Clear Tar Filters
Shop/Cigarette Filters/Original Disposable Cigarette Filter
Original Disposable Cigarette Filter
Customer Favorite – One of America’s best-selling cigarette holders/filters for over 50 years!
Compact and Convenient – Simply “use and toss”. No cleaning or maintenance required.
Affordable – Just pennies per cigarette! One Disposable cigarette filter tip can last up to 8 cigarettes. Some users report up to 20 cigarettes per filter.
Perfect Fit with Your Favorite Brand – Fits all standard-sized cigarettes. To use with slims, just add TarGard’s Slim Cigarette Adapter (sold separately).
Effective – Watch each filter work. Know when it’s time to toss away and reach for a fresh new one.
Choose the Color the Suits You Best
Amber – Our most popular color! Blends in nicely, but still lets you see what’s happening inside your filter as it fills up.
White – Perfect for users who prefer to “hide the evidence” and want a clean look on the end of their cigarette.
Clear – Just the thing for new TarGard users. See first-hand how hard your filter is working, and when it’s time for a replacement.
Price: $3.79 – $22.99
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 10 Pack - Amber quantity
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 10 Pack - Amber
$3.79
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 100 Pack - Amber quantity
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 100 Pack - Amber
$22.99
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 100 Pack - White quantity
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 100 Pack - White
$22.99
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 100 Pack - Clear quantity
Original Disposable Cigarette Filters - 100 Pack - Clear
$22.99
Add to cart
Description
World Famous. Incredibly Popular. The Original.
Smokers from all over the world have been choosing TarGard cigarette holders and cigarette filters for over 50 years – many customers returning decade after decade! Why? Because they are effective, affordable, and reliable – filter after filter. Assembled and distributed from beautiful Traverse City, Michigan, TarGard products are made with care by a small team that is genuinely committed to your experience. We invite you to try TarGard cigarette filters today and see for yourself what makes TarGard a world leader in affordable cigarette holders and cigarette filters.
Not interested in cleaning dirty filters on a regular basis? No problem – Enjoy the simple “Use and Toss” convenience of our popular Disposables!
Key Features
Double impingement barriers, for super effective filtering.
Compact and Convenient – Simply “use and toss”. No cleaning or maintenance required.
Larger capacity mouthpiece – to help you smoke more cigarettes through each filter. (Holding capacity varies by smoker and cigarette brand. Our customers typically report smoking 6-8 cigarettes per filter before discarding).
Proven design and quality materials – Our filters won’t affect your draw, or the taste of your cigarette!
TarGard Disposables are backed by TarGard’s Satisfaction Guarantee and our fabulous US-based customer care team.
Buy In Bulk & Save
We’ve been selling our Disposable Filters in convenient, easy to carry 10-pack cards for over a half a century. But when you buy in bulk online, each 100-count bag will save you over 40% off our already low 10-pack prices!
Universal Slim Cigarette Adapter – 20 Count – White