Dana Bash Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, CNN, Net Worth, Salary.
Dana Bash Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, CNN, Net Worth, Salary
04/08/2022 Kelly Journalists 0
Dana Bash
Dana Bash Biography
Dana Bash is an American journalist, news anchor, and chief political correspondent for CNN. She works as a co-host of all election night specials on the CNN Election Center. Bash also substitutes on “State of the Union” for Jake Tapper.
In addition, Bash has also produced several weekend shows on the channel, such as ‘ Evans & Novak, “Late Edition” and “Inside Politics.”
Bash studied at Pascack Hills High School in Montvale, New Jersey in the US. Later, she studied and graduated cum laude with a bachelor’s degree in political communications. She received her degree from George Washington University.
While at college, she worked as an intern at NBC, CBS, and CNN. In addition, Bash received an Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Franklin Pierce University in Rindge, New Hampshire On May 12, 2018.
After graduating from college, Bash went and joined CNN. She started working as a weekend program producer for Evans & Novak, Inside Politics, and Late Edition. Bash began producing programs that cover the United States Senate after working at CNN for several months.
Later, Bash started working as the lead political correspondent of CNN based in Washington, D.C. Additionally, she also appears as the lead news reporter for CNN.
Bash launched a CNN series titled Badass Women of Washington in 2017. She is keen on highlighting girls from a large variety of backgrounds and generations and showcasing how their journey has been on their way up the ranks.
Dana Bash Age
How old is Dana Bash? Bash is 50 years old as of 2021. She was born Dana Ruth Schwartz on June 15, 1971, in New York City, in the United States of America. In addition, she celebrates her birthday on June 15th every year, and her birth sign is Gemini.
Dana Bash Family
Bash was born in Manhattan, New York to a Reform Jewish family. Her father, Stuart Schwartz, worked as a news producer at ABC. She served as the senior broadcast producer for a show titled “Good Morning America.” In addition, her mother, Frances Weinman Schwartz, was an author and educator in Jewish studies.
Dana Bash Husband
Bash got married to her first husband Jeremy Bash in 1998. Jeremy worked as the CIA Chief of Staff and Department of Defense Chief of Staff under former US President Barack Obama. However, the couple got divorced in 2007.
Bash got married again to her second husband, John King in 2008. John is her fellow CNN correspondent. In addition, Bash gave birth to a son called Jonah in June 2011. The couple got separated and divorced in 2012.
Dana Bash’s Height
Bash stands at a height of 5 Feet 6 inches and her weight is 54 kg.
Dana Bash Net Worth
How much is Dana Bash worth? Bash has an estimated net worth of $6 million. Her income is mainly attributed to her career as a news anchor and chief political correspondent.
Dana Bash Salary
Bash receives an estimated annual salary of between $45,500 and $110,500.
Dana Twitter
Tweets by DanaBashCNN