Rebecca Haarlow Bio, Family, Marriage, Husband, Kids, and Net Worth
December 4, 2021,
By Subheksha Shrestha
Anchor Journalist Reporter Sports Anchor
Rebecca Haarlow Bio, Family, Marriage, Husband, Kids, and Net Worth
Quick Facts of Rebecca Haarlow
Full Name Rebecca Haarlow
Net Worth $700 thousand
Date of Birth 20 December, 1978
Birthplace in Chicago, Illinois, the United States of America
Ethnicity White
Profession journalist, Sportscaster & Princeton
Nationality American
Active Year 2003-pfresent
Eye colour Brown
Hair colour Blonde
Education Priceton University, Hinsdale Central High School, Graduate
Online Presence Instagram and Twitter
Horoscope Sagittarius
An American journalist, Sportscaster & Princeton, Rebecca Haarlow is currently serving as a broadcaster and exclusive reporter for MSG Network Knicks television.
Also, she is a media consultant and the founder of Rebecca Haarlow Inc., which she endowed after working as an NBA on TNT sideline reporter for Turner Sports.
Previously, Haarlow worked as the founder and Chief Marketing Officer of cobbler Concierge in New York.
Moreover, she strived for Big Ten Network as an analyst and sideline reporter. On NBC Chicago she worked as a sports anchor, and on NFL Network and Fox Sports Network as a host and reporter.
Read all the articles to get all the information regarding this talented journalist.
How Rich Is Rebecca Haarlow?
An American anchor, Rebecca’s net worth is evaluated to be around $700 thousand as of 2021. It includes her property, funds, and earnings.
And, her job as a journalist and television host provides her with the majority of her income.
Rebecca’s first road trip to Orlando, Florida. Image Credit: @rebeccahaarlow
In the United States, based on the average salary of journalists, Haarlow’s yearly pay ranges from $30,292 to $80,500. However, it might fluctuate significantly depending on the team member’s position of seniority.
And, she began her career as a public relations coordinator at Silicon Valley Sports in 2003.
Later, the reporter began working as a sideline reporter in 2007 for the Portland Trail Blazers, diverging her professional path.
Rebecca presenting at the 64th Annual New York Emmy Awards @nyemmyawards. Image Credit: Instagram
During the 2011 season, as an NFL Network newscaster, her career took a major leap forward, and she then worked part-time for NBC 5 in 2013.
After that, she replaced reporter Tina Cervasio at MSG Network as a sideline reporter for the New York Knicks Telecasts in 2015 and was given the job of interviewing.
Her Married Life
The 43 years old, Haarlow may be quietly living a happy life with her husband. Nevertheless, she has managed to keep her love and married life a bit secret while being a well-known journalist.
As a result, her marital status is still unknown to the general public, and it is unclear if a woman is single, dating, married, or divorced.
Rebecca with her friends. Image Credit: Instagram
Meanwhile, her well-wishers believe she is blissfully married and has a secret husband. Whatever the circumstances, Haarlow should be congratulated for keeping her personal life private.
Even she hasn’t confessed to having a partner, and the reporter hasn’t let any dating rumors get out in the open.
On the other hand, the journalist is pretty much active on social media and loves to share her work-related photos and her gorgeous picture on her Instagram page.
About Rebecca Haarlow
The 5 feet 7-inch tall Rebecca took birth on December 20, 1978, in Chicago, Illinois, the United States of America. Her zodiac sign of Sagittarius to her father, John Haarlow, and her mother May Haarlow.
Rebecca with her pet. Image Credit: Instagram
Likewise, Rebecca grew up alongside her two siblings, John Haarlow and Mike Haarlow. And she also has two pet dogs named Jessie and Quincy.
Additionally, the host attended and graduated from Hinsdale Central High School with honors.
Also, she gained six Class AA state track and field gold during her time there. Similarly, she enrolled at Princeton University and earned a Bachelor’s degree.
Stay Tuned With AllStarBio, For More Contents On Journalists.
American journalist and sportscaster American Princeton
Author
Chef
Fitness expert
Musician
Social Media Personality
Youtuber
Social Media Personality
TikTok Star
Actor
Comedian
Politician
Author
Cartoonist
Screen Writer
Actor
Producer
Criminal
Instagram personality
TikTok Star
Youtuber
Anchor
Comedian