Chris Cillizza CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Wife, The Point, Salary, and Net Worth
Chris Cillizza CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Father, Wife, The Point, Salary, and Net Worth
Ann Phlomena JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Chris Cillizza Bio | Wiki
Chris Cillizza (Christopher Michael Cillizza) is an American journalist working for CNN as a politics reporter as well as editor-at-large. He covers national politics including Congress and every district they represent and also the White House.
Prior to joining CNN, Chris at The Washington Post where he spent a decade. While there, he founded a political blog known as “The Fix” and also built a reputation as the authority on fast, incisive analysis of the day’s events.
Chris Cillizza Age
From our research, Chris was born on February 20, 1976, in Marlborough, Connecticut, in the United States. He is 45 years old.
Chris Cillizza Height
He is a man of tall stature. Chris stands at a height of 6 ft 2 in (Approx 1.88 m).
Chris’s Photo
Chris Cillizza Father
His father John Charles Cillizza was a teacher who had summers off while his mom worked a regular job so he spent most of the time with his dad. However, the two didn’t share a close relationship. Chris’s dad died suddenly as he was overnight and a former smoker for more than 30 years. He also struggles with depression and anxiety for years and wasn’t happy which affected him as well as the people around him. Chris is an only child and is currently left with one parent his mom.
Chris Cillizza Wife
He is happily married to his wife Gia Cillizza. Gia is a head field hockey coach who began her career in 2002. She previously worked at CUA under Miami University college teammate for three years serving as an assistant. Gia then left to pursue her career in publishing in the year 2004 following a two-year stint as a part-time head coach. She then became a reporter, assistant production editor and later became a marketing manager for the National Journal Group.
Chris met his wife for the first time on a softball field as Gia was a competitive scholarship field hockey player at Miami University. The couple shares two beautiful children. Chris doesn’t shy off from showing his affection towards his wife. The family currently lives in Falls Church, Virginia. However, details regarding when they tied the knot are currently unavailable.
Chris Cillizza Education
He attended an independent boarding school in Windsor, Connecticut called The Loomis Chaffee School where he graduated in the year 1994. Chris later enrolled at Georgetown University in 1994 and graduated in 1998 with a Bachelor of Arts in English.
Chris Cillizza The Point | Podcast
The Point was launched on June 28, 2017. Chris co-anchors alongside Lauren Dezenski in order to trascend the spin so as to get to the point of the day’s political news in less than five minutes. The podcast analyzed with one of the top political journalism teams in the US makes it a must-listen. You can catch them on Wednesday evenings on YouTube.
Chris Cillizza The Fix
Chris began the blog known as The Fix in the year 2005 where he frequently wrote until he joined CNN in the year 2017. The Fix focuses on American electoral politics with Chris commenting on Congressional, gubernatorial, as well as presidential elections.
Chris Cillizza CNN
He joined CNN on April 3, 2017, working as a political reporter as well as editor-at-large contributing online and also on television. Chris covers national politics including the Congress as well as every district they represent and the White House. His reporting dwells in the brand called “The Point with Chris Cillizza” and also includes a nightly letter as well as daily Amazon Echo and Google Home flash briefings.
Before joining CNN, he worked for The Washington Post for ten years where he launched a political blog called “The Fix” as well as built a reputation as the authority on fast, incisive analysis of the day’s events. A recurrent TV guest all over networks, Chris served as a political contributor for MSNBC for eight years. Prior to Washington, he reported For Roll Call regarding campaign politics where he served as their White House Correspondent. Before that, he reported for The Cook Political Report where he covered gubernatorial as well as House races.
Chris Cillizza Salary
He receives quite an impressive amount from working at CNN as a politics reporter and editor-at-large. Chris’s average salary is $135,741 annually.
Chris Cillizza Net Worth 2018 | Net Worth
Having worked in the media industry for quite some time, Chris has managed to garner a decent fortune. His net worth is $1.5 million.
How old is Chris Cillizza
According to our research, he was born on February 20, 1976, in Marlborough, Connecticut, in the USA. Chris is currently 45 years old.
Is Chris Cillizza Married
He is a married man as well as a family man. Chris is married to his better half Gia Cillizian ho is a head field hockey coach. The pair is blessed with two amazing kids and currently resides in Falls Church, Virginia.
Where is Chris Cillizza
Chris has been working as a politics reporter and editor-at-large for CNN since joining on June 3, 2017. Previously, he worked for The Wahington Post where he worked for a decade and launched a political blog called “The Fix”
Chris Cillizza Twitter
Gene Weingarten Washington Post, Bio, Wiki, One Day, Fatal Destruction, Salary, and Net Worth
Heather Catlin WSB, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Education, Salary, and Net Worth