Hubble - Construction, The Hubble Mirror, Blurred Vision, Hubbles Contact Lens
Chapter 5
Hubble
Photo by: NJ
In 1962, the National Academy of Sciences recommended the construction of
      a large optical telescope. More revolutionary than any of its
      predecessors, however, this one would be the first telescope rocketed into
      orbit to capture visible light waves. Astronomers explained to all
      potential sponsors that a telescope would be placed in orbit a few hundred
      miles above the earth's polluted and distorting atmosphere, with a
      primary mirror one-half that of Palomar's yet capable of producing
      photographs ten times sharper. Delayed many years by congressional debate
      and then by the 1986 explosion of the Challenger shuttle, the Hubble Space Telescope (HST), named to honor the preeminent
      astronomer Edwin Hubble, blasted into orbit in 1990 and immediately became
      the world's most publicized and most talked about telescope.
Escaping Earth's enveloping atmosphere gives an orbital telescope
      three distinct advantages over land-based instruments. First, an orbital
      telescope does not lose light coming from outer space that is filtered out
      by the gases, moisture, and dust swirling in the earth's
      atmosphere. Second, it is not affected by distortions created by rising
      heat from the earth's surface. And third, it only collects light
      produced by celestial objects, not from the electric light of metropolitan
      centers that mix with and degrade light from space. According to
      astronomers Daniel Fisher and Hilmar Duerbeck in their book Hubble: A New Window to the Universe , "Large telescopes on earth can get nowhere close to
      [Hubble's] resolution.
       Only a telescope in space can deliver stellar images of a few hundredths
      of an arcsecond." 22
American astronomers outlined five principal objectives for the HST:
      "Explore the Solar System, measure the age and size of the
      universe, search for our cosmic roots, chart the evolution of the
      universe, and unlock the mysteries of galaxies, stars, planets, and life
      itself." 23 Accomplishing such diverse objectives required a telescope that was
      capable of making, on the one hand, minute geological observations of
      small asteroids and comets little more than a few hundred feet across,
      while on the other hand studying and photographing super galaxy clusters
      billions of times larger than asteroids and comets in hopes of revealing
      the origins and destiny of the universe.
Construction
The HST is a telescope, but more than that, it is a satellite. A cylinder
      forty-three feet long, fourteen feet in diameter, and weighing 24,500
      pounds, the HST is roughly the size of a school bus. Operating in the
      vacuum of space far from helping human hands, the satellite was
      constructed to accommodate some of the most technically complex
      astronomical instrumentation ever built.
To operate in space, the HST needs a power supply, communications
      equipment, computers, and a control system. Power is supplied by two
      25-foot-long solar panels (384 square feet), each containing 48,760
      individual photo cells. Together, the two panels are capable of generating
      2,800 watts, roughly the equivalent of twenty-eight standard lightbulbs.
      The power generated by the panels is also used to charge six
      nickel-hydrogen batteries that provide power to the spacecraft for about
      twenty-five minutes per orbit while Hubble flies through the
      earth's shadow.
Designers of the Hubble Space Telescope had to take into account the
      conditions in which it was to operate. Hubble would be subject to the
      rigors of zero gravity and
Edwin Hubble
One of the great pioneers of modern astronomy, the American astronomer
        Edwin Powell Hubble was born in 1889 in Missouri. He began his adult
        life by earning a law degree and serving in World War I. However, after
        practicing law for one year, he decided to turn to astronomy. He
        completed a PhD dissertation, "The Photographic Investigation of
        Faint Nebulae," at the University of Chicago and then continued
        his work at Mt. Wilson Observatory in Pasadena, California, studying the
        faint patches of luminous "fog," or nebulae, in the night
        sky.
Using the largest telescope of its day, an eight-foot reflector, he
        studied Andromeda and a number of other nebulae and proved that they
        were other galaxies similar to our own Milky Way. He devised the
        classification scheme for galaxies that is still in use today, and he
        obtained extensive evidence that the laws of physics outside the galaxy
        are the same as on Earth—verifying the principle of the
        uniformity of nature. In 1929, using a one-hundred-inch telescope, he
        analyzed the speeds of recession of a number of galaxies and showed that
        the speed at which a galaxy moves away from the Milky Way is
        proportional to its distance. The explanation for this was apparent, yet
        revolutionary; he had proved that the universe is expanding, a principle
        now called Hubble's law.
Using this one-hundred-inch telescope, Edwin Hubble collected data
              that proved the universe is expanding.
temperature extremes that fluctuated several hundred degrees Fahrenheit
      during each trip around the earth. To protect its delicate instruments,
      Hubble is cloaked in a cocoon of multilayered insulation that shields the
      interior from extreme temperature fluctuations.
Hubble's optical system is held together by a truss system 17.5
      feet in length and 9.5 feet in diameter. The whole optical unit weighs
      just 252 pounds because it is made of the space-age material graphite
      epoxy, the same material used in many of the latest golf clubs, tennis
      rackets, and bicycles. Graphite epoxy is a stiff, strong, and lightweight
      material that resists expanding and contracting in temperature extremes.
The most sensitive object in need of thermal protection is the mirror.
      Highly sensitive to temperature change, it must remain within a narrow
      temperature range to produce images that will answer astronomers'
      most profound questions about the universe.
The Hubble Mirror
The heart of the HST is its 94-inch-diameter Cassegrain mirror with a
      24-inch center hole. Construction and assembly of the space mirror was a
      painstaking process spanning almost a decade. Corning Glass Works
      fabricated the 13-inch-thick blank mirror made of ultra-low expansion
      glass. To accommodate changing temperatures, they designed it in the form
      of a sandwich that had a honeycomb core (alternating hexagonal sections of
      glass and hollow voids) 10 inches thick fused between 1.5-inch-thick solid
      glass front and back plates. In addition to allowing the glass to expand
      and contract without cracking, this design reduced the weight. A solid
      core mirror blank of the same size would weigh 12,000 pounds;
      Hubble's weighed only 2,400 pounds. The cooling processes took
      three months to drop from the 2,156 degrees Fahrenheit liquid mass down to
      room temperature.
The cooled blank was then shipped to the optical facilities of
      Perkins-Elmer, the company contracted to
Researchers inspect the Hubble Space Telescope mirror. Construction
            of this massive mirror was a complex procedure that took nearly ten
            years to complete.
shape the mirror blank on a large grinder equipped with special
      diamond-tipped cutting tools and sophisticated polishers. Engineers
      trimmed the front and back plates, rounded the inner and outer diameter
      edges, and in the process reduced the front and back plate thickness from
      1.5 inches to 1 inch. This reduced the mirror's weight to 1,700
      pounds. Finally, highly skilled opticians using manually controlled tools
      and delicate hand-polishing techniques removed an additional 0.03 of an
      inch from the mirror's surface. The average time for each polish
      and test cycle was six days. During the many grinding and polishing
      cycles, the mirror was supported on an inflatable air bag device.
      Engineers deflated the air bag for polishing and
       inflated it for testing to simulate the gravity-free condition of an
      orbiting space telescope.
Laser tools were then used to polish the surfaces so that they would not
      deviate from the desired curve by more than 1/800,000th of an inch. To
      emphasize this precision, if Hubble's mirror were scaled up to the
      diameter of the earth, any leftover bumps on the glass would be no more
      than 6 inches high.
In order to make certain that the mirror was precisely ground, the optical
      engineers built a testing device known as a reflective null corrector.
      This device consisted of two small mirrors with a lens hung above the
      Hubble mirror. A laser beam was then shown on the main mirror through the
      lens of the corrector, which created a particular light pattern. When the
      mirror was ground to exactly the right shape, the light pattern would
      indicate to the optical engineers that they had achieved the desired
      curvature.
Blurred Vision
When the HST was launched, an optimistic NASA spokesperson called the
      telescope a new window on the universe. Entering orbit, all systems
      functioned properly when astronomers sent the remote signal to open the
      door that covered the telescope optics to take the first picture. The
      so-called first light occurred on May 20, 1990.
The photographs transmitted back to Earth successfully, yet experienced
      astronomers found the images disturbing. They were the wrong shape.
      Engineers attempted to adjust the lens, but after several weeks they
      recognized that something was seriously wrong. As more blurred photos
      poured in, astronomer Eric Chaisson inspected the faulty images and later
      recalled, "I sensed a total deflation in my gut." 24
Hubble's main mirror was the wrong shape and could not focus
      properly. Engineers inspected an identical backup mirror and discovered
      than the central region of the mirror was too flat by just a few
      nanometers. This
       mistake severely reduced the resolution of the telescope so that when
      focused, it was able to gather only about 15 percent of the light of a
      very distant star instead of the 80 percent needed to produce a clear
      image.
The mistake was devastating to the $1.5 billion project. The mirror itself
      could not be repaired or exchanged deep in space, so NASA engineers went
      to work to develop corrective optics for Hubble's mirror.
Hubble's Contact Lens
No solution was possible without sending astronauts to make the repairs
      during a space walk. Optical engineers fabricated the Corrective Optics
      Space Telescope Axial Replacement (COSTAR) to correct the defective
      mirror. COSTAR was essentially a contact lens for Hubble's huge
      eye.
In December 1993, astronauts flew to the HST on the space shuttle Endeavour , carrying COSTAR and the necessary tools to install it. COSTAR consisted
      of five small mirrors that intercepted the beam from the flawed mirror,
      corrected the defect, and then relayed the corrected beam to the
      scientific instruments at the focus of the mirror. The procedure, although
      risky for the astronauts performing the installation, was completed
      without a hitch.
On December 18, 1993, just after midnight, astronomers packed a small room
      and huddled around a computer screen anxiously awaiting the first-light
      picture taken with HST's corrective lens. At 1:00 A . M ., the tension broke when the image of a star popped onto the computer
      screen; the pinpoint dot of light meant that the star was clearly
      resolved. The telescope was fixed, and in the words of Ed Weiler,
      NASA's chief Hubble astronomer, it was "fixed beyond our
      wildest expectations." 25
The in-orbit repair of Hubble was one of the landmarks of manned
      spaceflight. Installation of the COSTAR mirrors required an unprecedented
      series of five space walks on a single space shuttle flight. The
An astronaut on the space shuttle Endeavour uses a device to position his partner above the HST, where he
            installed the COSTAR lens to correct the telescope's
            defective mirror.
result of adding the corrective lens, however, was worth it. In his book Hubble's Universe: Portrait of Our Universe , Simon Goodwin noted that the COSTAR corrections "would enable the
      HST to resolve the disc of a five-cent piece from a distance of over 2 km
      [1.24 miles], and to create a sharpness of vision equal to a
      person's ability to stand in New York City and distinguish two
      fireflies, three feet apart in San Francisco." 26
First the problem, then its resolution, and finally spectacular
      photographs made Hubble the most talked about telescope ever constructed.
      Mario Livio, a senior scientist with the HST, commented, "Ask any
      person the name of a playwright. Most of them would say Shakespeare. Ask
      them the name of a scientist.
       Most of them would say Einstein. Ask the name of a telescope. They will
      all say Hubble." 27 Once Hubble was ready to go, astronauts turned their cameras into deep
      space to capture dramas never before seen.
Hubble's Cameras
HST carries an array of four different types of cameras, all of which are
      mounted on an apparatus capable of positioning them, one at a time, at the
      end of the mirror to produce photographs. Three are responsible for
      capturing visible light and one for infrared, the slightly longer
      wavelength just beyond visible light. Each of the four cameras has a
      different function.
The Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS) is used to
      reveal information about the birth of stars, distant solar systems, and
      galaxies only available in infrared. Because NICMOS's advanced
      detectors must be kept cool to work best, they are contained in a large
      thermos bottle, called a dewer, which is chilled with liquid nitrogen to
      –351 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) camera records all lengths
      of the visible light spectrum. A prism called a spectrograph divides light
      into its component colors. This provides a "fingerprint" of
      a celestial object and gives information about its temperature, chemical
      composition, and motion, among many other characteristics. STIS is unique
      because it can sample some five hundred points along a large astronomical
      object simultaneously. This means that many regions in a planet's
      atmosphere or many stars within a galaxy can be recorded in a single
      exposure. STIS observations will lead to a greater understanding of the
      origin and evolution of galaxies and star formation. The most unusual
      camera, and the one of interest to black hole hunters, is the Advanced
      Camera for Surveys (ACS). The ACS maps the distribution of black holes
      throughout the Milky Way by detecting distant objects and gases swirling
      into their intense gravitational fields.
Above, this blurry image of a spiral galaxy was taken by the HST
              before COSTAR was installed; below, the same galaxy is imaged by
              the HST after the corrective lens was mounted.
Pinpoint Telescope Aiming
Photographing celestial objects in deep space requires pinpoint aiming,
      which necessitates an exceptionally stable telescope. Astronomers compare
      photographing distant stars and galaxies from a satellite to photographing
      bathers at a beach from a distant bobbing boat. Besides the uncertainty of
      movement, exposure times needed to capture faint light from deep space can
      last up to many hours. During that lengthy exposure, the telescope must
      maintain the same precise view angle toward the object or the photograph
      will be blurred. Just as telescopes anchored to the earth, Hubble must
      produce the same unwavering stability while floating in a weightless
      environment.
Accomplishing absolute stability for a long-duration photograph of several
      hours requires the work of six onboard gyroscopes. Each maintains the
      satellite's stability by spinning nineteen thousand times per
      minute, and each contains electronic sensors to detect any minute
      deflections of the gyroscope. If any deflection is detected, the sensors
      reposition the satellite.
Hubble's Accomplishments
Hubble's discoveries have revolutionized astronomy and astrophysics
      by providing the best understanding yet of the origins and the probable
      fate of the universe. The HST has afforded many of the most astonishing
      photographs ever taken of the cosmos. The images are like nothing ever
      seen before, depicting a universe more explosive and fantastic than anyone
      had imagined. In late 2003, for example, a single photograph taken by
      Hubble revealed the largest extent of the universe ever photographed, ten
      thousand galaxies covering 13 billion light-years. Since the light was
      just reaching Hubble, the picture showed the universe the way it looked
      near the dawn of time.
Other photographs reveal everything from razor-sharp views of the planets
      in the solar system to vast stellar regions where stars and planets are
      born. Some
       show the explosive outbursts of supernovas, while others show the
      swirling masses of stars that make up galaxies billions of light-years
      away from Earth. In 2004, astronomers were treated to photographs of
      reddish rectangular ladderlike structures surrounding a dying star. Dubbed
      the "Red Rectangle," its color and form are unlike that of
      any other known cosmic object. According to astronomers, its ladderlike
      appearance is the result of outflows ejected from the star in two opposing
      directions. In the same year, Hubble photographed sheets of debris from a
      stellar explosion in a neighboring galaxy that resembled the puffs of
      smoke and sparks from a summer fireworks display. Astronomers explain that
      the solar system was constructed from similar exploding debris in the
      Milky Way billions of years ago.
In 2003, Hubble taught astronomers about the creation of galaxies.
      Photographs detected a grouping of galaxies engaging in an act of
      consolidation. The galaxies are so tightly packed together that
      gravitational forces are beginning to rip stars from one and send them
      into another. Those gravitational forces, say astronomers, will eventually
      pull the galaxies together to form one super galaxy. Yet other recent data
      provided by the HST have provided insights into star formation.
      Photographs and spectral analyses suggest that the first stars in the
      universe appeared in an abrupt eruption of star formations, rather than at
      a gradual pace.
The thousands of photographs and millions of bits of data beamed down from
      the HST have also answered some fundamental questions about the universe.
      According to Dr. Bruce Margon, the associate director of science for the
      Hubble Space Telescope, Hubble has taught science a great deal:
      "Well, for one thing, how old is the place we live in? That used to
      be the subject of furious arguments amongst astronomers. It's
      almost an obsolete question now. Hubble has solved that." 28 By focusing the HST for 192 hours on the single most
       distant white dwarf star, a star that died out billions of years ago,
      astronomers have determined the age of the universe to be about 13.8
      billion years.
The Deepest Photo of Space
On March 9, 2004, astronomers working with the Hubble telescope unveiled
        the most distant portrait of the visible universe ever achieved. Named
        the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF), this photograph revealed images of
        the first galaxies to emerge shortly after the big bang, a time when the
        first stars reheated the cold, dark universe. This historic new view is
        actually two separate images, one taken by Hubble's Advanced
        Camera for Surveys (ACS) and the other by its Near Infrared Camera and
        Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS). Both images, when combined, reveal
        galaxies that are too faint to be seen by ground-based telescopes. In an
        interview found on the Web site HubbleSite.org, project manager Massimo
        Stiavelli states, "Hubble takes us to within a stone's
        throw of the Big Bang itself." Referring to the image studded
        with a wide range of galaxies of various sizes, shapes, and colors,
        Stiavelli adds, "There is a zoo of odd-ball galaxies littering
        the field. Some look like toothpicks; others like links on a
        bracelet."
The HUDF required a series of exposures taken over the course of four
        hundred Hubble orbits around the earth. Photons of light from the very
        faintest objects arrived at a trickle of one photon per minute, compared
        with millions of photons per minute from nearer galaxies. The photograph
        will be used to search for galaxies that existed between 400 million and
        800 million years after the big bang—a relatively short period of
        time when compared with the 14-billion-year age of the universe.
The picture of the universe became even more interesting and complicated
      when Hubble detected that the rate at which the universe is expanding has
      accelerated over time. When asked about the implications of this startling
      finding, Dr. Ed Weiler remarked, "It means that we don't
      understand gravity. This implies there's some negative energy
      force, some anti-gravity that's actually pushing things apart. We
      don't understand it. It's not supposed to be there." 29 The implications of this discovery are startling for cosmologists because
      it means that the universe may have no boundaries and that it therefore
      may expand forever.
Also read article about Hubble from Wikipedia
User Contributions:
1
Dennis Barrett
Feb 23, 2013 @ 1:01 am
Was there an Important person from Dayton,oh-Beavercreek,oh.that did or discovered something that added to the success of the lense repair done via a spacewalk repair?What was his name?
2
peter
Sep 21, 2018 @ 12:12 pm
Perkin-Elmer not Perkins-Elmer is the name of one manufacturer
3
JamesKarse
Oct 13, 2018 @ 12:12 pm
Your blog provided us valuable information to work on. You have done a outstanding job!