Lauren Blanchard Fox News, Bio, Wiki, Age, Family, Husband, Children, Height, Salary and Net worth
Ad
Lauren Blanchard Fox News, Bio, Wiki, Age, Family, Husband, Children, Height, Salary and Net worth
BY Administrator
Ad
Last Updated on 12 months by
Lauren Blanchard Wiki
Related Posts
Lauren Blanchard is a Fox News journalist who was known to be one of the most prominent national correspondents on the channel. She has spent her whole career in the Rupert Murdoch-owned network, but it was Blanchard’s coverage of Bernie Sanders’ campaign during the 2016 presidential elections that proved she’s one of the best reporters on the field. She i s currently working as the correspondent for  Fox News Channel and Fox News Edge.
Ad
Lauren Blanchard
Lauren Blanchard Biography
In 2008 she attended the University of Michigan. Lauren graduated in 2012 with a Bachelor of Science in Communications.
Ad
Lauren Blanchard Fox News
Lauren interned at the Fox News Washington D.C. bureau as part of the Fox News Channel University program before she graduated. The internship which Lauren did at Fox News was successful enough to land her a job at the network. After graduating, she moved to D.C. to work as a desk assistant in Fox News’ production room.
She found a role on Fox News Sunday as a production assistant after four months. Lauren worked in both production and writing for the show and even prepared the show’s graphics.
Ad
Blancard was assigned as a junior reporter for Fox News this made her briefly move to Iowa for two years. But in 2016 she was back at the Washington bureau, this time as a correspondent.
Lauren was assigned as a 2016 presidential campaign embed for her first major assignment as a national correspondent. She shadowed Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign up until the Democratic primaries. In 2018 Lauren traveled across the pond to cover Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s royal wedding on May 19, 2018.
Ad
Lately, Lauren has been showcasing her amazing news quiz skills on Tucker Carlson Tonight’s “Final Exam” segment.  She was undefeated, winning seven matchups in a row against esteemed colleagues like Fox News Chief National Correspondent Ed Henry in February 2019.
Lauren Blanchard Age
She was Born on October 13, 1990.
Ad
Lauren Blanchard Family
She has a healthy bond with her parents and she also has a brother, she is the only girl out of three kids born in the Blanchard family. Lauren’s family celebrated the Thanks Giving Day’ of 2016 by feasting the ostrich meat. She wished the ‘Thanks Giving Day’ on her Twitter and posted her family photo.
Lauren Blanchard Husband
Lauren is not willing to get married this is per the recent reports. But, it shows that whoever she marries shortly will undoubtedly be the luckiest husband. Currently, she is focusing more on her media career rather than relationships and gossips. She likes traveling to different new places and gain new ideas.
Ad
Lauren Blanchard Children
Information about her children will be updated soon.
Lauren Blanchard Height
She stands at a height of 5 feet 7 inches.
Lauren Blanchard Pet
Lauren has announced herself as a huge cat lover and enthusiast. She is even known as cat mom for her unceasing love for the pet. Her beautiful cat is named Isabel. Apart from enjoying the time with her pet, she often flaunts Isabel on her social media accounts. On 7 August 2017 Lauren Instagrammed a picture of Isabel relaxing on the bed holding Justin Cronin’s book The Passage. On 17 December 2016, it’s when Lauren for the first time got hold of Isabel. From that time she is flaunting her beautiful cat love as she treats her pet as her own child.
Lauren Blanchard Salary
A correspondent working at Fox News receives an average of $102,080, salary varies from $93,653 to $109,739 with the top earnings being more than $117,854 including bonus, equity, and additional payments. Lauren has been in Fox News since August 2016 so she is likely drawing above average salary.
Lauren Blanchard Net worth
Her net worth is estimated to be around $500k.
Lauren Blanchard Instagram
Categories:
Journalists
K-L
Tags:
FOX News