Jasmine Wright CNN, Bio, Age, Height, Family, Salary, and Net Worth
Jasmine Wright CNN, Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Education, Salary, and Net Worth
Dorcas JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Jasmine Wright Bio | Wiki
Jasmine Wright is an American political reporter. She currently works for CNN as their White House representative. Jasmine is also a political embed who covered the 2020 presidential election. She trailed the then-Senator, Kamala Harris, during her Democratic primary campaign. Jasmine also reprised her role as an embed for Kamala when she ran on the Democratic ticket as the USA Vice President.
She also embedded on Senator Amy Klobuchar’s Democratic primary campaign. Jasmine covered CNN’s 2018 midterm elections. She traveled across the country to trail House as well as Senate candidates on their quest to Capitol Hill with 2020 potential candidates.
Jasmine Wright Age
She was born on March 3, 1990, in Windy City, Chicago, United States. Jasmine is 31 years old.
Jasmine Wright Height
She is a woman of average stature. Jasmine stands at a height of 5 ft 4 in ( Approx 1.6m).
Wright’s photo
Jasmine Wright Family
She is a proud Chicagoan, Jasmine was born and brought up by her father and mother in the Windy City.  However, she has not shared any information concerning her parents and siblings.
Jasmine Wright Husband
The 31 Chicago native has managed to keep her personal life away from the limelight. Its therefore not possible to tell if she is single, dating, or married.
Jasmine Wright Education
She attended and graduated from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign with honors a degree in Broadcast Journalism in May 2014.
Jason Wright CNN
She joined CNN in Aug 2018 and was located in Washington D.C. Metro Area. Before joining CNN, Jasmine was a reporter and a producer at PBS NewsHour, she had joined the station in Sep 2015. She was located in North Korea. Jasmine reported on the climate disasters as well as the Trump administration. While there, she wrote and produced numerous tape pieces on Congress, the White House, as well as the Russia investigation for the daily news show.
Before her role as a reporter and a producer at PBS NewsHour, Jasmine helped in covering the 2016 election as the Political Unit’s production assistant. Jasmine is an active and devoted member of the National Association of Black Journalists. In Sep 2011 – Jan 2012, Jasmine worked as a reporting intern At The Public I Newspaper based in Urbana-Champaign, Illinois Area. While there, she contributed reports concerning the community of Champaign-Urbana.
She also helped in formatting the layout for monthly newspapers as well as publishing stories for the same. Jasmine also managed stories for online website thePublici.com. From Jun 2012 – Aug 2012, Jasmine worked as a web editorial intern for Inked Magazine. From May 2013 – Sep 2013, She worked as a News Intern at NBC News. Jasmine wrote questions and also facilitated answers for MOS’s with the NBC camera crew. From Sep 2012 – May 2014, she worked as an On-Air Reporting Intern for WICD ABC Newschannel 15. From step 2014 – Dec 2014, Jasmine worked as a NewsOne Intern at ABC News.
Jasmine’s colleagues at CNN includes
Laura Jarrett – anchor
Clarissa Ward -correspondent
Joe Johns -anchor
Bob Van -meteorologist
Selina Wang -correspondent
Gary Tuchman -anchor
Amara Walker -correspondent
Jasmine Wright Salary
She earns the basic salary of a CNN reporter. Jasmine’s average salary is $ 87,684 per year.
Jasmine Wright Net Worth
She has accumulated a decent wealth since she joined the journalism field while still a student. Jasmine’s estimated net worth is $ 999,567.
How Old Is Jasmine Wright
She was born on March 3, 1990, in Windy City, Chicago, and is 31 years old.
Who Is Jasmine Wright
Jasmine Wright is an American political reporter. She currently works for CNN as their White House representative.
Jessica Schneider CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary and Net Worth
Cyril Vanier CNN, Bio, Age, Height, Family, Wife, Education, Salary, and Net Worth