Jessica Schneider CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Wedding, Attorney, Measurements, Neck, Chicago, Salary and Net Worth
Home USA JOURNALISTS Jessica Schneider CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Wedding, Attorney, Measurements, Neck, Chicago, Salary and Net Worth
Jessica Schneider CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Wedding, Attorney, Measurements, Neck, Chicago, Salary and Net Worth
0
Jessica Schneider Biography and Wiki
Jessica Schneider is an American news journalist and attorney currently working as a justice correspondent for CNN News based in Washington D.C. Prior to joining CNN, Schneider worked as a reporter at WCBS-TV in New York City.
Jessica Schneider Age and Birthday
Jessica has not disclosed any information on her age, date of birth, and birthday.
Jessica Schneider Height and Weight
Schneider stands at an average height and moderate weight. She appears to be quite tall in stature if her photos, relative to her surroundings, are anything to go by.
Jessica Schneider Family and Parents
Jessica was born and raised in Manchester, Connecticut, However, she has not disclosed any information about her family nor her parents.
Jessica Schneider Education
Schneider graduated from Boston University in 2002 with degrees in Political Science and Broadcast Journalism and was honored to be chosen to give the Commencement Address for the College of Communication
Jessica Schneider Husband and Wedding
Jessica is married to her husband Adam Christopher Dunn Harrison, The couple got married on May 11, 2019, at District Winery, a winery, and restaurant in Washington. She was first married to Mitch Schwartzman in 2016 and divorced after only two years.
Jessica Schneider Salary
Jessica receives an annual salary of $350,000 as an attorney and justice correspondent for CNN.
Jessica Schneider Net Worth
Jessica has an estimated net worth of $4 million as of 2021, she has amassed this amount from her career as an attorney and justice correspondent for CNN News.
Jessica Schneider Attorney
Jessica has a legal degree. From 2006 until 2010, she worked at WFSB Channel 3 in Hartford, Connecticut, and attended the University of Connecticut School of Law.
She worked as a judicial intern in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut, as a summer associate at Sedgwick, Detert, Moran, and Arnold, and as a participant in the Law Student Observer Program while there.
Aside from that, she incorporated her passion of journalism into her studies by working as an Articles Editor for the Connecticut Journal of International Law.
Jessica Schneider Measurements
Body Measurements: Not Available
Height / How Tall?: 1.75 meters
Weight: Not Known
Eye Color: Blue
Hair Color: Blonde
Jessica Schneider Neck
Jessica is highly admired by all her fans for her beautiful neck appearance.
Jessica Schneider Chicago
Ms. Schneider stepped into new leadership roles with the U.S. Ipsos Marketing team in 2018. She was promoted to be the President of Ipsos Marketing’s Quantitative business unit in the U.S. She succeeded Joe Marshall, who took another position at Ipsos UK, and will remain based in Chicago.
Jessica Schneider CNN Wikipedia
Schneider is a Washington, D.C.-based justice journalist. She is not just an award-winning journalist, but also an attorney. Schneider was among the first reporters on the scene to cover the Orlando Nightclub Shooting, and he wrote extensively on the Cincinnati Zoo’s gorilla tragedy and its possible legal ramifications.
Schneider formerly worked as a reporter at WCBS-TV in New York City, where she covered legal problems and law enforcement. Schneider was celebrating her brother’s marathon victory one block from the finish line in 2013 when the explosives went off.
She spent the week reporting from the site before returning to Boston for the one-year anniversary of the assault. Schneider’s legal knowledge was prominent throughout WCBS’ ongoing coverage of the Etan Patz murder trial in New York City.
She live-tweeted the events in the courtroom, where cameras were not permitted, and guided viewers through the legal wranglings of the 17-day jury deliberation, which resulted in a mistrial. Schneider received an Emmy Award for her coverage of Governor Chris Christie’s Return Home New Jersey effort. Governor Christie backed down in July 2015, discontinuing the Return Home New Jersey initiative, as a consequence of media publicity and persistent parental pressure.
Schneider worked as a litigation attorney at two New York City law firms for two years, focused on the defense of product liability, construction, and catastrophic injury cases in New York and New Jersey.
Schneider attended the University of Connecticut School of Law, where she was an Articles Editor for the Connecticut Journal of International Law, one of 40 law students selected to work at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C., and represented criminal defendants in Connecticut courts as part of UConn Law’s Criminal Clinic.
Schneider graduated with honors in 2010, and after passing the New York and New Jersey bar tests, he was allowed to practice law in both states as well as their federal courts. Schneider started her career as a video journalist at Time Warner cable channel Capital News 9, now YNN/Time Warner Cable News, where she served as the Amsterdam, New York Bureau Chief and Political Reporter.
Also Read About: Tracie Potts (NBC4) Age, Wiki, Bio, Birthday, Parents, Husband, Married, Sorority, Salary and Net Worth
Jessica Schneider Social Media
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
Be the first to comment