__label__energy	Graphical Abstract Electricity-gas integrated energy system optimal operation in typical scenario of coal district con- sidering hydrogen heavy trucks Junjie Yin,Jianhua Wang,Jun You Power Grid Coal Natural Gas Network CH 4 Coa l d Hydrogen heavy trucks Hydrogen heavy trucksHydrogen load PEM Electrolysis P2H Electricity Power load Heat load Power load Heat load Methanation H2Electricity CO 2 Hydrogen refueling station H2Coal Gasification Heat Hydrogen refueling station H2Coal Gasification Heat H2H2P2M Pipeline Coal District Transport coal Energy Network C2H arXiv:2102.02620v2 eess.SY 8 Feb 2021 Highlights Electricity-gas integrated energy system optimal operation in typical scenario of coal district con- sidering hydrogen heavy trucks Junjie Yin,Jianhua Wang,Jun You Advantages of hydrogen heavy trucks in typical scenario of coal industry district are discussed. The eﬃcient closed loop of hydrogen energy from generation to utilization is proposed. P2G including power-to-hydrogen and power-to-methane is developed, combined with coal gasiﬁcation technology. The economy and low-carbon properties of the proposed IEGS mechanism are analyzed. Electricity-gas integrated energy system optimal operation in typical scenario of coal district considering hydrogen heavy trucks Junjie Yina, Jianhua Wanga, and Jun Youa aSchool of Electrical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Integrated energy system Power-to-gas Coal-to-hydrogen Hydrogen heavy trucks Second-order cone programming Optimized schedulingABSTRACT The coal industry contributes signiﬁcantly to the social economy, but the emission of greenhouse gases puts huge pressure on the environment in the process of mining, transportation, and power generation. Intheintegratedenergysystem(IES),thecurrentresearchaboutthepower-to-gas(P2G) technologymainlyfocusesontheinjectionofhydrogengeneratedfromrenewableenergyelectrolyzed waterintonaturalgaspipelines,whichmaycausehydrogenembrittlementofthepipelineandcannot be repaired. In this paper, suﬃcient hydrogen energy can be produced through P2G technology and coal-to-hydrogen (C2H) of coal gasiﬁcation, considering the scenario of coal district is rich in coal and renewable energy. In order to transport the mined coal to the destination, hydrogen heavy trucks haveabroadspacefordevelopment,whichcanabsorbhydrogenenergyintimeandavoidpotentially dangeroushydrogeninjectionintopipelinesandrelativelyexpensivehydrogenstorage. Anoptimized schedulingmodelofelectric-gasIESisproposedbasedonsecond-orderconeprogramming(SOCP). Inthemodelproposedabove,theclosedindustrialloop(includingcoalmining,hydrogenproduction, trucktransportationofcoal,andintegratedenergysystems)hasbeeninnovativelystudied,toconsume renewableenergyandcoordinatemulti-energy. Finally,anelectric-gasIESstudycaseconstructedby IEEE30-nodepowersystemandBelgium24-nodenaturalgasnetworkwasusedtoanalyzeandverify the economy, low carbon, and eﬀectiveness of the proposed mechanism. 1. Introduction 1.1. Motivations Asweallknow,thecoaldistrictisatypicallargeenergy loadofindustry. Intheproductionprocessofmining,prepa- ration, etc., coal mine machineries need to consume a lot of electricityandheat. Inaddition,heavytruckstransportcoal tovariousdestinations,whichrequiresalargeamountofen- ergytodrivetheengineandisessentialinthecoalindustrial production process. Moreover, the coal industry areas usu- ally suﬀer from serious environmental pollution problems, the main reasons include but not limited to coal dust, fac- tory emissions, vehicle exhaust, etc. Facing the tremendous environmentalpressureandresourceshortage,coaldistricts that rely on traditional energy supply methods are in urgent need of transformation. Nowadays,thedevelopmentofrenewableenergy,repre- sented by wind power (WP), solar photovoltaics (PV), etc., has become an inevitable trend. Generally speaking, coal resources are distributed in inland mountainous areas, and the local geographical features determine the abundant WP resourcesintheseareas. However,thephenomenonofaban- doning WP and PV is still serious, mainly due to the insta- bilityofrenewableenergyandthediﬃcultyofbeingdirectly integrated into traditional energy networks. Based on the above analysis, an energy mechanism for the typical coal districts has yet to be proposed. For coal districts, there are the following visions: giving full play to the advantages of rich wind energy in coal districts, design- Corresponding author wangjianhua seu.edu.cn (J. Wang) ORCID(s): 0000-0001-7782-7274 (J. Yin); 0000-0001-5185-4506 (J. Wang)ing practical and eﬀective energy supply structure systems, andrealizingsmooth,low-carbonandenvironment-friendly transportation of coal resources. As an energy output ter- minal, it has important responsibilities for the entire energy network. Therefore,thefollowinggoalsshouldbeachieved: consuming renewable energy as much as possible, breaking thestatusquooftheseparatedesignandindependentopera- tionofeachexistingenergysupplysystem,andestablishing the integrated energy system (IES), in order to promote the optimization of the energy structure and ﬁnally achieve the grand goal of carbon neutrality. 1.2. Related Work Regarding IES, many studies mainly focuse on the cou- pling and interaction of power systems and natural gas sys- tems,i.e.,integratedelectric-gassystems(IEGS) 1,2 . Ac- cording to the type of conversion gas, Power-to-gas (P2G) technologycanbedividedintotwotypes: power-to-hydrogen (P2H)conversionandpower-to-methane(P2M)conversion. The hydrogen and methane produced in P2G plants can be used in following ways 3 : (1) Furthersynthesistomethaneorotherhydrocarbonfuels through methanation equipment; (2) Injectionthemixtureofhydrogenandmethaneintonat- ural gas pipelines by hydrogen compressed natural gas (HCNG) technology 4 ; (3) Power generation with the help of internal combustion engine or combined heat and power (CHP) devices 5 ; (4) Hydrogen storage into tanks after pressurization 6 ; (5) Hydrogen refueling stations for vehicles or the use of hydrogen in industry. First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 10 Nomenclature Abbreviations C2H Coal-to-hydrogen of coal gasiﬁcation IEGS Integrated electric-gas system IES Integrated energy system P2G Power-to-gas P2H Power-to-hydrogen P2M Power-to-methane PV Photovoltaics SOCP Second-order cone programming WP Wind power Parameters and constants WPAbandoning WP punishment parameter Hot spare coeﬃcient LELLower explosive limit of H2 CH4 LFLLower ﬂammability limit of H2 CH4 UELUpper explosive limit of H2 CH4 UFLUpper ﬂammability limit of H2 CH4 CU_D i;tStart Stop cost of unit iat timet CmnWeymouth constant Hi;JiSingle start stop cost of unit i Rd;RuUnit down up ramping speed TS, TO Minimum stop start time Sets and indices NgSet of natural gas nodes ,Ng 1;2; ;m; ;Ng NLSet of load nodes ,NL 1;2; ;i; ;NL NUSet of thermal units ,NU 1;2; ;i; ;NU Variables Truck tTransport consumption coeﬃcient of hydrogen trucks fCoal H2;tFlow rate produced by C2H at the time slot t fTruck H2;tTotal hydrogen demand of heavy trucks at t Coal tEﬃciency of coal gasiﬁcation at the time slot t CH4elec;tPower consumption parameter in process of electroly- sis corresponding to CH4 CH4meth;tPowerconsumptionparameterinprocessofmethana- tion corresponding to CH4 H2;tPower consumption parameter corresponding to H2 tRatio of mined coal used as the raw material for coal gasiﬁcation at the time slot t elec;tReaction eﬃciency of PEM electrolysis at t meth;tReaction eﬃciency of methanation at t cH2_CH4Concentration percentage of H2 CH4 mThe square of the pressure value at node m m; mThreshold of the square of the pressure value of m pm;pmThreshold of pipeline pressure sm;smThreshold of natural gas source storage capacity CCO2Cost of CO2emissions Cf iCoal consumption cost of thermal power unit i Cg m;tCost of the natural gas network CWP;tPunishment cost of abandoning WP CTruck;tCost of truck transportation ConsH2;tElectricty consumption of producing H2 ECoal;tProﬁt from selling coal f H2;tH2ﬂow rate produced by P2G equipment for further methanation at t fH2;tH2ﬂowrateproducedbyP2Gequipmentforhydrogen refueling station at t fmnNatural gas ﬂow from node mto noden MtWeight of coal mined at the time slot t pmPressure value of node m Pd;i;tLoad demand for electricity of node jat timet Pi;maxMaximum output value
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	International Journal of Energy Science and Engineering Vol. 3, No. 5, 2017, pp. 44-47 http: www.aiscience.org journal ijese ISSN: 2381 -7267 (Print); ISSN: 2381 -7275 (Online) The Arctic Electric Power Stations Are the Decision of Energy, Environmental and Climate Problems. B.M.Ovchinnikov1 , Yu.B.Ovchinnikov2, V.V.Parusov1 1Institute for Nuclear Research , Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia 2National Physical Laboratory, Hampton Road, Teddington, Middlesex, UK Corresponding a uthor: ovchin inr.ru Abstract In this paper we propose the decision of energy, environmental and climate problems o f the society wit h the help of a rctic electric power stations. Such stations can provide the electricity t o the whole of Europe and Asian, this can save from dependence on oil and gas. This method of producing electricity is completely ecologically safe. The stations are decision of the energy problem in the case of nuclear winter . The paper contai ns project on establishment of a rctic (winter) power stations (see our publication: Journal of Thermal Engineering, Vol.51, 2, 2004, B.M. Ovchinnikov et al. Pow er plants that use the thermal energy of natural wa ter bodies and the atmosphere ) 1 . The work is based on the power that is released, when water freezes with releasing of large energy (333 Joules per 1 gram of water). The general principle of the station consists in next. The water is frozen on the boiler, which is located in the water (river, lake or ocean), in the boiler the working fluid evaporates, enters the turbine and after that it is fed into the cooling tower, the cold air cooled, liquefied and p umped back to the boiler etc. Keywords: electric al engineering, power station, design, generator, renewable , energy system 1. Introduction The main problem humanity must solve in the near future is the energy problem . Although the available deposit of hydrocarbon gases under the seabed are enough to last several hundreds of years, the continent combustion of hydrocarbons fuels and the results buildup carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is unacceptable because of the growing greenhouse effect a nd the approaching environmental catastrophe. Nuclear power poses a risk to the environment through the pos sibilities of another Chernobyl -type (or Fucushima -type ) disaster and the yet unresolved problem of nuclear -waste recovery. Moreover, the supply of u ranium and thorium from na tural deposits is limited to a few centuries. Renewable energy sources (RESs) and power stations based on wind, solar, hydro, and geothermal energy have not such disadvantages and they do not emit carbon dioxide into the atmospher e. Recent years have seen the development of power stations using the thermal energy of natural bodies of water (seas, oceans, rivers, and lakes). These RESs and power stations are also free from the above negative effects. Compared to conventional energy sources, the advantage of RESs is their virtual inexhaustibility and environmental friendliness 2 -4 . As early as 1881, French physicist Jacques -Arsene d Arsonval first demonstrated the possibly of developing a heat engine that could operate on a tempe rature difference between a heater and a cooler of about 20 C. Reference 5 describes using the energy of naturally heated water in warm zones of the World Ocean for industrial power production. Even more efficient were the designs for floating large - capacity (100 -MV) OTPS systems developed by the American Lockheed and SSP companies in 1978 and 1981, respectively 6 . Arctic electric power stations that use the difference between the temperatures of the sub -ice sheet waters and of the air are being d eveloped 7 . 2. Operation principle of arctic electric power station. The work of arctic station is based on the power that released, when water freezes (1 gram of water releases 333 Joules of heat). The station contains the working body (gas), which is liquef ied at the arctic temperature (about minus 30 0 C) and evaporates at the temperature about 0 C. The station operates on organic Rankine cycle. The station consists of turbine, electric generator, pump s, condenser, cooling tower, boiler -evaporator and buffer (Fig.1). The boiler is locates in water (river, lake or ocean). The working body is liquefied in the cooling tower, and pumped to the boiler, the water is frozen on the surface of the boiler with the heat releasing, th e working body is evaporates, enters the turbine, makes the work and then enters to the cooling tower, liquefied and after that is pumped to the boiler etc. The working fluid of the unit is a volatile liquid with a low freezing point. The evaporator, the t urbine and the condenser contain the working fluid at pressures than enable the fluid to evaporate at the temperature that exists in the evaporator and condense at the temperature attained in the condenser . In fig. 2 -4 we present the design of cooling towe r, condenser and boiler -evaporator . The turbine, generator, pumps and buffer are standard industrial devices. Fig.1 Operation principle of power station 2.1 Construction of boiler -evaporator. Figure 2 shows the design of a tubular boiler -evaporator. It is installed in sub -ice sheet water having a temperature close 0 C. The evaporator tubes are quite closely oriented to the vertical position. At the same time, the distribution of the working fluid allows the liquid to flow down along the tubes in unifor m layers. Such a regime ensures maximum heat transfer from the tube walls to the working fluid. The water temperature is close to zero, and the working fluid absorbs heat from the water, heats up, and evaporates; therefore, a certain icing of the tube s urfaces during operation is inevitable. The heat release is 333 J oules per gram of ice, that is, intense heat transfer from the freezing water to the tube walls takes place. This method of heating the evaporator tubes by icing them is much more efficient then one based on supplying a great deal of water with a near -zero temperature
__label__energy	A Resource Allocation Scheme for Energy Demand Management in 6G-enabled Smart Grid Shafkat Islam ,Ioannis Zografopoulosy,Md Tamjid Hossainz,Shahriar Badshax,Charalambos Konstantinouy Purdue University,yCEMSE Division, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) zUniversity of Nevada, Reno,xBosch Engineering-North America E-mail: islam59 purdue.edu, mdtamjidh nevada.unr.edu, shahriar.badsha us.bosch.com fioannis.zografopoulos, charalambos.konstantinou g kaust.edu.sa Abstract Smart grid (SG) systems enhance grid resilience and efﬁcient operation, leveraging the bidirectional ﬂow of energy and information between generation facilities and prosumers. For energy demand management (EDM), the SG network requires computing a large amount of data generated by massive Internet- of-things sensors and advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) with minimal latency. This paper proposes a deep reinforce- ment learning (DRL)-based resource allocation scheme in a 6G- enabled SG edge network to ofﬂoad resource-consuming EDM computation to edge servers. Automatic resource provisioning is achieved by harnessing the computational capabilities of smart meters in the dynamic edge network. To enforce DRL-assisted policies in dense 6G networks, the state information from multiple edge servers is required. However, adversaries can poison such information through false state injection (FSI) attacks, exhausting SG edge computing resources. Toward addressing this issue, we investigate the impact of such FSI attacks with respect to abusive utilization of edge resources, and develop a lightweight FSI detection mechanism based on supervised classiﬁers. Simulation results demonstrate the efﬁcacy of DRL in dynamic resource allocation, the impact of the FSI attacks, and the effectiveness of the detection technique. Index Terms Smart grid, automation, energy system, DQN, edge computing, ﬁne grained classiﬁcation, false state injection. I. I NTRODUCTION Signiﬁcant efforts have been made towards the digitization of the power grid. Smart grid (SG) functionalities enhance grid resilience and sustainability while enabling the efﬁcient utilization of renewable and distributed resources, outgrowing its previous hierarchical and centralized nature (e.g., bulk coal, oil, etc. generation facilities). Leveraging concepts such as the Internet-of-Things (IoT), advanced metering infrastructure (AMI), demand-response schemes, and 6G connectivity, the power grid is transitioning from a unidirectional power archi- tecture to a composite information and power network. It is predicted that 530 GWs of distributed generation will be integrated into the power grid by 20241. The rapid rate of renewable and distributed penetration, the intermittency of such resources, and the timing constraints introduced by the energy market operation (e.g., demand-response schemes) require real-time administration. Centrally processing such information and coordinating with the SG end-nodes be- comes time consuming (e.g., network latency) and resource- 1www.fortunebusinessinsights.comdemanding (CPU resources, computer systems, information management, etc.). 6G technologies and edge computing can provide solutions to the challenging problems of optimally predicting, allocating, and economically deploying available power system resources 1 , 2 . Leveraging the deployed computational power of embedded systems, controllers, AMI and IoT at the edge of the power grid, can alleviate the number of data that have to be centrally processed, and curtail unnecessary network data trafﬁc (e.g., end-node to central server). Furthermore, using 6G, communication can be accelerated, allowing for more sophisticated schemes and ensuring resilient real-time operation. The importance of 6G technologies to manage resources in heavily interconnected and reconﬁgurable SG deployments is the epicenter of many research works. For instance, the authors in 3 , demonstrate the gravity of reliable wireless connections between edge devices in time-critical operations, as well as the potential consequences if such requirements (i.e., availability and reliability) are not met. To moderate the computational burden of dense SG networks, researchers have proposed ofﬂoading schemes leveraging the capabilities of edge nodes (ENs). In 4 , a collaborative ofﬂoading strategy is proposed where after a central server has received all the expected requests, instead of evaluating them locally, the requests are fragmented and forwarded to EN devices for processing. In 5 , task ofﬂoading scheme is formulated as a joint optimization problem, where the communication (AMI) and the compu- tation (ENs) devices are cooperatively optimized. Q-learning approach has been explored to assist the optimal ofﬂoading decision making process 6 . Using stochastic optimization, the ofﬂoading problem can be addressed, enabling the efﬁcient operation of demand-response mechanism in decentralized SG topologies with renewable penetration 7 . The advanced interconnection and reconﬁgurability of SGs, the multitude of EN device types, and the transformation of the traditional power grid into a network of information , introduces data security and reliability implications 8 10 . More speciﬁcally, the power grid utilities leverage the private and conﬁdential operational data (generated by hundreds of in- terconnected sensors, intelligent electronic devices (IEDs), dis- tributed energy resources (DERs), etc.) of the modern bidirec- tional SGs to detect potential cyber physical anomalies (e.g.,arXiv:2207.00154v2 cs.NI 5 Nov 2022 Fig. 1: 6G-enabled edge computing based SG network. sudden power ﬂuctuations), perform state estimation, fault or disturbance analysis, islanding detection, load modeling, fore- casting, etc. 11 13 . Therefore, any stealthy cyberattacks by porting false state injection (FSI) into the system or by delaying and manipulating in-transit data may jeopardize the grid s stable operation 14 17 . In this work, to address both the computationally demanding resource allocation problem and the security requirements of densely interconnected SG systems, we propose the use of deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms to identify optimal solutions to the time- sensitive energy demand management (EDM) problem. We utilize the computational power of ENs to deal with the advanced complexity of distributed optimal resource alloca- tion, along with 6G technologies that can provide high-speed data throughput, minimal latency, and reliable communications that provide high quality of service in real-time applications. We also investigate the performance of DRL policy in the presence of FSI attacks and develop ﬁne-grained FSI detection techniques based on supervised classiﬁers. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION A. 6G-enabled Edge Computing based Smart Grid Network Fig. 1 illustrates an edge-computing architecture for the residential SG system deployed in urban or suburban areas. In this system, we assume that renewable energy, i.e., solar photovoltaic panels, serves as an alternative energy source in addition to the traditional fuel-based system. The EDM scheme is installed on the edge servers, and we assume that each smart meter is under the coverage
__label__energy	Multi-agent Battery Storage Management using MPC-based Reinforcement Learning Arash Bahari Kordabad, Wenqi Cai, Sebastien Gros Abstract In this paper, we present the use of Model Pre- dictive Control (MPC) based on Reinforcement Learning (RL) to ﬁnd the optimal policy for a multi-agent battery storage system. A time-varying prediction of the power price and production-demand uncertainty are considered. We focus on optimizing an economic objective cost while avoiding very low or very high state of charge, which can damage the battery. We consider the bounded power provided by the main grid and the constraints on the power input and state of each agent. A parametrized MPC-scheme is used as a function approximator for the deterministic policy gradient method and RL optimizes the closed-loop performance by updating the parameters. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed method is able to tackle the constraints and deliver the optimal policy. I. INTRODUCTION Increasingly many electricity consumers actively participate in the power system through bidirectional power trades 1 . In order to improve the efﬁciency of power transmission and the power quality, one of the key technologies is based on the Energy Storage Systems (ESS) 2 . A multi-agent battery storage system, usually includes several batteries that are connected to a main grid. The main grid exchanges the power with all of the batteries and the batteries attempt to optimize their own cost. Since the total power exchanged by the main grid is limited at each time, ﬁnding an optimal policy that satisﬁes this restriction is challenging. Making decisions for the power system to optimize an eco- nomic cost in the presence of different forms of uncertainties is the object of recent publications 3 , 4 . In smart grids, the uncertainties mainly arise from the imperfect forecasts of the long-term prices and the power production-demand. Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers tools for tackling Markov Decision Processes (MDP) without having an accurate knowledge of the probability distribution underlying the state transition 5 , 6 . RL seeks to optimize the parameters underlying a given policy in view of minimizing the expected sum of a given stage cost. RL methods are usually either directly based on an approximation of the optimal policy or indirectly based on an approximation of the action-value function. Policy gradient methods directly attempt to ﬁnd the optimal policy parameters by optimizing the closed- loop performance. Q-learning and Least Squares Temporal Different (LSTD) are among the algorithms that capture the action-value function 7 . Regarding the approximation of The authors are with Department of Engineering Cybernet- ics, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway. E-mail: fArash.b.kordabad, wenqi.cai, sebastien.gros g ntnu.nothe generic optimal policy and optimal action-value function, Fuzzy Neural Network and Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are common choices 8 . In the smart grids context, usually there are reasonable forecasts of the statistics of the uncertainties and a knowledge of the systems dynamics. Therefore, using a structured function approximation such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) scheme can be beneﬁcial. Indeed, MPC uses the predicted information and model to provide a reasonable but usually suboptimal policy 9 . Moreover, MPC is able to handle the high-dimensionality of the forecasts. In 10 , it is shown that adjusting the model, cost, and constraints of the MPC could achieve the best closed-loop performance, and RL is proposed as a possible approach to perform that adjustment in practice. Recent researches have developed further the combination of RL and MPC (see e.g. 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 ). In this paper, considering the time-varying prediction of the spot market and the production-demand uncertainty, we use an MPC-scheme to minimize the running cost of the system, while penalizing extreme State-of-Charge (SOC). A low- level controller monitors the SOC in real time and prevents violating the constraints by buying or selling more power if needed 16 . We suppose that all the agents are connected to a main grid, and each battery stores or releases a limited amount of power at every time instant. The deterministic policy gradient method and the LSTD method are adopted to update the policy parameters and action-value parameters, respectively. The simulation results show that our proposed MPC-based RL method is capable of ﬁnding the optimal MPC parameters for the multi-agent battery storage system. The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section II provides the multi-agent battery storage dynamics and details the economic objective and constraints of the problem. Section III formulates the centralized MPC-scheme method via the MPC-based policy and it presents the policy gradient method that used to ﬁnd the optimal policy. Section IV presents the simulations and section V delivers a conclusion. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION In this section, we formulate the battery storage dynamics, the economic objective function with state constraints for a multi-agent system, and peak power constraints over time. A. Dynamics Photovoltaic (PV) battery systems allow households to participate in a more sustainable energy system ( 3 ). ThearXiv:2106.03541v1 eess.SY 7 Jun 2021 battery storage dynamics can be written as the following linear system: soci k 1 soci k i i k bi k si k ; (1) wherei2 1;:::;n is theithbattery,nis the number of batteries, subscript k 0;1;::: denotes the physical time, soci k2 0;1 is the State-of-Charge (SOC) of the battery and the interval 0;1 represents the SOC levels considered as non-damaging for the battery (typically 20 -80 range of the physical SOC). Constant iis a positive value that reﬂects the battery size. Process noise i k N i; i is the difference between the local power production-demand over the sampling time interval k;k 1 , which for the sake of simplicity is considered as a Normal centred random variable, where iand iare the mean and variance of the Gaussian distribution. Input bi k(si k)2 0; Ui is the average power bought (sold) from (to) the power grid over time interval k;k 1 , where Uiis the bound for the buying (selling) energy for the ithbattery. Fig. 1 illustrates the multi- agent
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	1 Architected Porous Metals in Electrochemical Energy Storage Vladimir Egorov1 and Colm O Dwyer1,2,3,4 1School of Chemistry, University College Cork, Cork, T12 YN60, Ireland 2 Micro -Nano Systems Centre, Tyndall National Institute, Lee Maltings, Cork, T12 R5CP, Ireland 3AMBER CRANN, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland 4Environmental Research Institute, University College Cork, Lee Road, Cork T23 XE10, Ireland Abstract Porous metallic structures are regularly used in electrochemical energy storage devices as supports, current collectors or active electrode materials. Bulk metal porosification, dealloying, welding or chemical synthesis routes invol ving crystal growth or s elf-assembly for example, can sometimes provide limited control of porous length scale, ordering, periodicity, reproducibility, porosity and surface area. Additive manufacturing and 3D printing has shown the potential to revolutionize the fabrication of ar chitected metals many forms, allowing complex geometries not usually possible by traditional methods, but enabling complete design freedom of a porous metal based on the required physical or chemical property to be exploited. We discuss properties of porou s metal structures in EES devices and provide some opinions on how architected metals may alleviate issues with electrochemically active porous metal current collectors, and provide opportunities for optimum design based on electrochemical characteristics required by batteries, supercapacitors or other electrochemical devices. Corresponding author: Email: c.odwyer ucc.ie ; Tel: 353 (0)21 4902732 Keywords: Porous Metals , Current Collectors, Additive Manufacturing (AM), Metal foams, Electrochemical Energy Storage (EES), Batteries, Supercapacitors , Metallic Lattice 2 1. Introduction Porous metals, in ordered or random form, have been a mainstay in electrochemical science and technology 1-4 . Porous metals and metallic foam have been used as high surface area electrodes, current collectors, substrates, counter electrodes or even faraday cages. We now have a wide range of methods to fabricate porous metal with different porosity leng th scales, a nd with different degrees of ordering or periodicity 5-8 . While certain metals, their alloys and their physical properties fundamentally limit the range of latticed or porous structures that can be formed, the choice of metal for electrochemical energy st orage applications 9-12 is usually based on surface activity, passivity, electrical conductivity and weight the length scale of porosity 13 , and the type s of porous ordering are not always obtainable a la carte for the electrochemical application when open -worked from the bulk metal . We examine the nature of porous metal formation, address some limitation for transition metals and noble metals in foam, lattice or porous form 14 for electrochemical energy storage devices and discuss how the choice of metal and the method of fabrication influence the nature of the porosity and their relative benefit in energy storage devices . While directed self -assembly from chemical routes, sacrificial templates 15 , dealloying approaches, or macropore formation metho ds can create a wide variety of porous structures, including metals, replication and mi nimization (or elimination) of structural defects is a persistent problem when they are used as electrodes 16, 17 . Additive manufacturing methods, including 3D printing, has evolved to allow large and small structures to be engineered to provide long range periodic or aperiodic metallic porous structures 18- 21 that are, by comparison, almost defect free in their lattice structure. Accurate replication of any por ous structure will allow for better comparison between supercapacitor, battery and other electrodes (e.g. water splitting and many more electrochemical process es 22 ) to be quantitatively compared and assessed, provide a defined surface area for determinin g intrinsic geometrical surface area 23-25 effects in electrochemical processes, and allow us to choose metals and porous structures to take advantage of specific physics properties useful to the application, e.g. toughness, thermal conductivity, flexibil ity, surface activity etc. Here, we provide a summary perspective on porous metal structures using in electrochemical energy storage (EES), particular supercapacitors and batteries, and the primary methods used to dat e to make these porous metals. We discu ss periodic porous metals and porous metal foams, the main methods used to make these structures, and provide our opinion on the advent of additive manufacturing for metallic lattice or porous metal formation for EES devices . We also discuss the merits of some additive manufacturing approach es that can create me tals in more complex and useful structure s that cannot be achieved form porosification of bulk metals, dealloying and chemical assembly routes for example . These methods for porous metals widen the c hoice of active materials for electrochemical applications, or indeed as passive, conductive current collectors that do not contribute unwanted parasitic activity. 2. Porous Metal Fabrication Methods Metallic p orous materials can exist in a variety of forms, such as foams, sponges, micro nanolattices, micro nanoarrays etc. 19-21, 23, 24 Structurally, porous materials can be categorized as stochastic (random) and ordered (mostly periodic, but aperiodic 3D -tiling is also possib le), depending on the 3 randomness of pore size and arrangement (Fig. 1a) 5, 20 . Examples of stochastic structures include metal foams and sponges, whereas micro or nanolattices belong to the ordered category. In order to achieve high accessible specific surface area and create continuous diffusion pathways, which is important for EES applications, the porous structures should ideally be open -cell 5 , i.e. internal pores should be well - interconnected minimizing the number of isolated cavities. Complete interconnectivity is more easily achieved in the engineered lattices and arrays particularly when structure is imposed by design. For other types of structures such as bottom -up- or self -assembled for example, interconnectivity is a function of the method and conditions of fabrication. Stochastic materials are usually isotropic at scales larger than a cell size, however, periodic structures can be highly anisotropic when the spatial arrangement or dimensions of unit blocks have a prevalent direction 20 . Metallic foams and sponges (open -cell foams) are traditionally produced using two main approaches: by creating pores in the bulk material or by fusing many separate cells into a single structure 26 . The former approach in turn can be implemented using
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__energy	1 Comparative Analysis of Machine Learning Models for Short-Term Distribution System Load Forecasting Elias Raffoul1, Mingjian Tuo2, Cunzhi Zhao3, Tianxia Zhao4, Meng Ling4, and Xingpeng Li1 1 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA 2 Key Laboratory of Automotive Power Train and Electronics, Hubei University of Automotive and Technology, Shiyan, China 3 McNeese State University, Lake Charles, LA, USA 4 Industrial AI Team, Shell, Houston, TX, USA Abstract Accurate electrical load forecasting is crucial for optimizing power system operations, planning, and management. As power systems become increasingly complex, traditional forecasting methods may fail to capture the intricate patterns and dependencies within load data. Machine learning (ML) techniques have emerged as powerful alternatives, offering superior prediction accuracy and the ability to model non-linear and complex temporal relationships. This study presents a comprehensive comparison of prominent ML models feedforward neural networks, recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory networks, gated recurrent units, and the attention temporal graph convolutional network for short-term load forecasting of the Energy Corridor distribution system in Houston, Texas. Using a 24-hour look-back window, we train the models on datasets spanning one and five years, to predict the load demand for the next hour and assess performance. Our findings aim to identify the most effective ML approach for accurate load forecasting, contributing to improved grid reliability and system optimization. Index Terms Attention Temporal Graph Convolutional Network, Distribution system, Energy Corridor, Gated Recurrent Unit, Load Forecasting, Long Short-Term Memory, Machine Learning, Recurrent Neural Network. I. INTRODUCTION As energy consumption patterns evolve due to increasing electrification and renewable integration, the power grid faces unprecedented challenges in maintaining stability and reliability. Addressing these challenges requires advancements in predictive techniques that can anticipate demand fluctuations with greater precision. Modern approaches, particularly those leveraging machine learning (ML), have the potential to transform how power systems adapt to complex load behaviors. Over the years, numerous approaches have been explored for load forecasting, ranging from classical time series models to more sophisticated statistical methods 1 . While these traditional techniques have provided valuable insights, their limitations in capturing the increasingly complex and dynamic behaviors of modern energy systems have become more apparent. The rise of ML has introduced a new era in forecasting, enabling models to learn from vast historical datasets and uncover intricate, non-linear patterns that were previously elusive 2 - 5 . This study conducts a comprehensive comparison of several notable ML models for short-term load forecasting of the Energy Corridor distribution system in Houston, Texas. The models evaluated include feedforward neural networks (FNN), recurrent neural networks (RNN), long short-term memory networks (LSTM), gated recurrent units (GRU), and the attention temporal graph convolutional network (A3T-GCN). Using a 24-hour look-back window, the models are trained on datasets spanning one year and five years, to predict the load demand for the following hour. Their performance is then assessed to evaluate their effectiveness. FNNs have been successfully applied in various load forecasting studies, demonstrating their ability to model non- linear relationships 6 . However, they lack the capacity to effectively capture temporal dependencies. In contrast, RNN architectures have proven adept at learning from sequential data, with LSTM networks, in particular, showing considerable promise due to their ability to mitigate the vanishing gradient problem. Studies have demonstrated LSTM s superiority over standard RNNs and GRU models in load forecasting tasks, achieving the lowest mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) in their analysis of Panama City s load data 7 . LSTM s ability to learn long-term dependencies makes it a leading choice for load forecasting, and several studies have validated its effectiveness in capturing both short-term and long-term load trends. For example, a comparison of LSTM, GRU, and vanilla RNN models for load forecasting in the PJM East region found LSTM to consistently outperform its counterparts across multiple accuracy metrics, including root mean square error (RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE) 8 . GRUs offer a simplified architecture compared to LSTMs while maintaining comparable performance 9 . Some research has demonstrated that GRUs can achieve equal or even superior results to LSTMs in specific load forecasting scenarios, benefiting from reduced computational complexity and faster training times 10 . Advancements in attention mechanisms have further enhanced the performance of sequence prediction models. The A3T-GCN integrates graph convolutional networks (GCN) with attention mechanisms to capture both spatial and temporal dependencies in time series data 11 . Originally developed for traffic forecasting, A3T-GCN shows promising potential for application in load forecasting due to its ability to model complex spatiotemporal relationships effectively. While extensive research has been conducted on individual ML models for load forecasting, comparative analyses across different models and temporal scales are still relatively rare. Moreover, studies that focus on real-world distribution systems, particularly those that integrate both residential and commercial loads, are limited. This study addresses these gaps by offering a detailed comparison of FNN, RNN, LSTM, GRU, and A3T- GCN models, utilizing real-world datasets from the 44-bus Energy Corridor distribution system. Through this analysis, the 2 study aims to uncover the strengths and weaknesses of each model in capturing short-term load patterns. The insights gained will not only enhance load forecasting accuracy but also inform the selection of the most appropriate models for various forecasting scenarios in power system operations. II. NETWORKS TOPOLOGIES In this section, we describe the various network topologies of ML models employed in our study, highlighting the structure and unique characteristics of each. A. Feedforward Neural Networks (FNN) FNNs are one of the most basic and widely used neural network architectures. As illustrated in Fig. 1, each neuron in a given layer is connected to every neuron in the subsequent layer, forming a dense network of connections. This architecture allows FNNs to capture complex patterns and relationships within the data by learning a series of weights that define the importance of each connection. In the context of load forecasting, FNNs are advantageous due to their simplicity and ease of implementation. They can approximate any continuous function, making them versatile for various
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	arXiv:0903.0195v3 physics.soc-ph 2 Jul 2009Robustness of Trans-European Gas Networks Rui Carvalho,1, Lubos Buzna,2, 3, Flavio Bono,4, Eugenio Guti errez,4Wolfram Just,1and David Arrowsmith1 1School of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of L ondon, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS, U.K. 2ETH Zurich, UNO C 14, Universit atstrasse 41, 8092 Zurich, S witzerland 3University of Zilina, Univerzitna 8215 5, 01026 Zilina, Sl ovakia 4European Laboratory for Structural Assessment, Joint Rese arch Centre, Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen (IP SC), Via. E. Fermi, 1 TP 480, Ispra 21027 (VA), Italy Here we uncover the load and fault-tolerant backbones of the trans-European gas pipeline network. Combining topological data with information on inter-coun try ﬂows, we estimate the global load of the network and its tolerance to failures. To do this, we ap ply two complementary methods generalized from the betweenness centrality and the maximu m ﬂow. We ﬁnd that the gas pipeline network has grown to satisfy a dual-purpose: on one hand, the major pipelines are crossed by a large number of shortest paths thereby increasing the eﬃcie ncy of the network; on the other hand, a non-operational pipeline causes only a minimal impact on n etwork capacity, implying that the network is error-tolerant. These ﬁndings suggest that the t rans-European gas pipeline network is robust, i.e., error tolerant to failures of high load links. PACS numbers: 05.10.-a, 89.75.-k, 89.75.Fb I. INTRODUCTION The world is going through a period when research in energy is overarching 1, 2 . Oil and gas prices are volatile because of geopolitical and ﬁnancial crises. The rate of world-wide energy consumption has been acceler- ating, while gas resources are dwindling fast. Concerns about national supply and security of energy are on top of the political agenda, and global climate changes are now believed to be caused by the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere 1 . Although physicists have recently made substantial progress in the understanding of electrical power-grids 3 , 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 , surprisingly little attention has been paid to the structure of gas pipeline networks. Yet, nat- ural gas is often the energy of choice for home heating and it is increasingly being used instead of oil for trans- portation 2 , 11 . Although renewable energy sources oﬀer the best cuts in overall CO2emissions, the gener- ation of electricity from natural gas instead of coal can signiﬁcantly reduce the release of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. As the demand for natural gas rises in Eu- rope, it becomes more important to gain insights into the global transportation properties of the European gas network. Unlike electricity, with virtually instantaneou s transmission, the time taken for natural gas to cross Eu- rope is measured in days. This implies that the coor- dination among transport operators is less critical than for power grids. Therefore, commercial interests of com- peting operators often lead to incomplete or incorrect network information, even at the topological level. Until Electronic address: rui maths.qmul.ac.uk Electronic address: lbuzna ethz.ch Electronic address: ﬂavio.bono jrc.itnow, modelling has typically been made in small systems by the respective operators, who have detailed knowl- edge of their own infrastructures. Nevertheless, Ukraine alone transits approximately 80 of Russian gas exports to Europe 12 , suggesting the presence of a strong trans- portation backbone crossing several European countries. Historically, critical infrastructure networks have evolved under the pressure to minimize local rather than global failures 13 . However, little is known on how this local optimization impacts network robustness and secu- rity of supply on a global scale. The failure of a few important links may cause major disruption to supply in the network, not because these links connect to degree hubs, but because they are part of major transportation routes that are critical to the operation of the whole net- work. Here we adopt the view that a robust infrastructure network is one which has evolved to be error tolerant to failures of high load links. Our method is slightly dif- ferent from previous work on real world critical infras- tructure networks with percolation theory 6, 10, 14, 15 , which assume the simultaneous loss of many unrelated network components. The absence of historical records on the simultaneous failure of a signiﬁcant percentage of components in natural gas networks implies that the methods of percolation theory are of little practical rele- vance in our case. Hence, our approach to the challenge of characterising the robustness of global transport on the European gas network was to characterise the hot transportation backbone which emerges when measuring network load and error tolerance. II. TRANS-EUROPEAN GAS NETWORKS We have extracted the European gas pipeline network from the Platts Natural Gas geospatial data 18 . The data set cover all European countries (including non EU 2 FIG. 1: (Colour online) European gas pipeline network. We sh ow the transmission network blue (dark gray) pipelines ov erlaid with the distribution network brown (light gray) pipeline s . Link thickness is proportional to the pipeline diameter . We projected the data with the Lambert azimuthal equal area pro jection 16 . Background colours identify EU member states . TABLE I: Basic network statistics for the transmission and complete European gas pipeline networks. The complete net- work is the union of the transmission and distribution net- works. Statistics Gas network Gas network (transmission) (complete network) Number of nodes 2207 24010 Number of edges 2696 25554 Total length km 119961 436289 countries such as Norway and Switzerland), North Africa (main pipelines from Morocco and Tunisia), Eastern Eu- rope (Belarus, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Turkey) and Western Russia (see Fig. 1). Similarly to electrical power grids, gas pipeline net- works have two main layers: transmission and distribu- tion. The transmission network transports natural gas over long distances (typically across diﬀerent countries) ,whereas pipelines at the distribution level cover urban areas and deliver gas directly to end consumers. We ex- tracted the gas pipeline transmission network from the complete natural gas network, as
__label__energy	Actors in Multi-Sector Transitions - Discourse Analysis on Hydrogen in Germany Nils Ohlendorf1,2, Meike L ohr3Jochen Markard4,5 1Technische Universit at Berlin, Department of Economics of Climate Change, Straße des 17. Juni 145, 10623 Berlin, Germany 2Mercator Research Institute on Global Commons and Climate Change, Torgauer Staße 12-15, 10829 Berlin, Germany 3Carl von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Institute of Social Sciences, Oldenburg, Germany 4Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Z urich, Department of Management, Technology and Economics, Z urich, Switzerland 5Zurich University of Applied Sciences, Institute of Sustainable Development, Winterthur, Switzerland Corresponding author: Nils Ohlendorf, Torgauer Staße 12-15, 10829 Berlin, Germany Mail: ohlendorf nils hotmail.com Acknowledgements: Nils Ohlendorf acknowledges funding by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Re- search (PEGASOS, funding code 01LA1826C). Meike L ohr (meike.loehr uni-oldenburg.de) acknowledges funding by the German Research Foundation (grant number 316848319) in the context of the Emmy Noether-project Regional energy transitions as a social process (REENEA). Jochen Markard (jmarkard ethz.ch) acknowledges funding from the Norwegian Research Council (Conflicting Transition Pathways for Deep Decarbonization, grant number 295062 E20) and from the Swiss Federal Office of Energy (SWEET program, PATHFNDR consortium). We thank participants and discussants at the International Sustainability Transitions Con- ference (IST 2021), 5th International Conference on Public Policy (ICPP5), the Sustainable Technologies Colloquium at the ETH Z urich, and members of the Climate and Development group at the MCC Berlin for their helpful comments and suggestions. Declaration of Interest: The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal re- lationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Please cite as: Ohlendorf, N., L ohr, M., Markard, J. (2023). Actors in multi-sector transitions- discourse analysis on hydrogen in Germany. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transi- tions, 47, 100692.arXiv:2311.11421v1 eess.SY 19 Nov 2023 Actors in Multi-Sector Transitions - Discourse Analysis on Hydrogen in Germany Abstract: With net-zero emission goals, low-carbon transitions enter a new phase of development, lead- ing to new challenges for policymaking and research. Multiple transitions unfold in parallel across different sectors. This involves a broad range of technologies, while actors engage in in- creasingly complex discourses. Here, we study the discourses on hydrogen in Germany. Based on the analysis of 179 newspaper articles from 2016 to 2020, we find that a diverse set of actors, including many industry incumbents, speak favorably about hydrogen, emphasizing economic opportunities and its relevance for the energy transition, whereas skeptics highlight its low energy efficiency and expected scarcity. With the help of discourse network analysis, we identify three emerging conflicts around the use, production, and import of hydrogen. We explain these conflicts and the widespread support of incumbents with a conceptual frame- work that captures the complex interplay of sectoral contexts, specific technologies and actor interests. Keywords: Hydrogen, Discourse Network Analysis, Multi-Sector Transitions 1. Introduction As more and more countries and businesses are making pledges to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero until mid-century (H ohne et al., 2021), the transition toward low- carbon energy systems is entering a new phase of development. It is not sufficient any more to pursue incremental changes, or to focus on selected sectors, such as electricity or transport. Instead, societies need to cut, or compensate for all greenhouse gas emissions across all sectors. This net-zero phase of the energy transition imposes new challenges. One challenge is the simultaneous involvement of multiple socio-technical systems, or sectors, and various tech- nologies within and across these multiple systems. Another challenge is the large number of actors with different backgrounds and interests. Transitions research has begun to address some of these challenges, highlighting the increasing complexity if transitions comprise mul- tiple sectors or multiple technologies (Papachristos et al., 2013; Rosenbloom, 2020; Andersen and Markard, 2020). Despite some progress, we still lack empirical studies and conceptual frameworks to analyze transitions that involve multiple systems (Rosenbloom, 2020). We address this gap with a study on the emerging field of hydrogen, a research case that is at the heart of the latest phase of the net-zero energy transition (van Renssen, 2020). Hydrogen is currently pushed by policymakers as an alternative energy carrier for a broad range of applications, including difficult-to-decarbonize industries (DDI), such as steel or aviation (Davis et al., 2018). As of 2021, 17 countries have already adopted hydrogen strategies, while another 20 are under development (IEA, 2021a). We select Germany as a leading industrialized country with many large incumbent firms in different industries. The German government actively promotes hydrogen as an essential part of its net-zero strategy. We ask how actors talk about hydrogen, and whether and why they support or oppose to it. We also address how incumbent actors may be affected by the sectoral context they are operating in. We approach these questions by analyzing the discourses on hydrogen in Germany in leading nationwide newspapers. Our analysis starts in 2016 and covers the years leading up to the end of 2020. The final dataset comprises 179 newspaper articles of five newspapers, quotes of 139 actors, and 30 storylines. Discourse analysis (Hajer, 2006) can 3 be a particularly insightful tool for innovations at early stages of development when actors try to create meaning and common understanding, shape categories, or influence policies (Rosenbloom et al., 2016). We also employ discourse network analysis (DNA) (Leifeld, 2017) on a subset of storylines related to three emerging conflicts. We find a widespread, partly even enthusiastic support for hydrogen among incumbent actors, while environmental NGOs and some think tanks adopt more skeptical positions. Considering that incumbents have often resisted transformative change (Hess, 2014; Smink et al., 2015) this might seem surprising at first. Our findings add to more recent studies that add more nuance to the role of incumbents in transitions (Turnheim and Sovacool, 2020). We also identify three specific lines of conflict, namely about in i) which sectors hydrogen should be used, ii) which production methods are desirable, and iii) potential risks and benefits of hydrogen imports. We also contribute by developing a simple conceptual framework to study the involvement
__label__energy	1 The role of living laboratories in unlocking the potential of low-carbon energy technologies on the UK s journey to net-zero Zhong Fana, Jun Caob, Taskin Jamalc, Chris Fogwilld, Cephas Samendea, Zoe Robinsona, Fiona Polacke, Mark Ormeroda, Sharon Georgea, Adam Peacocka, David Healeya a Keele University b Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology (LIST) c Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology , Dhaka, Bangladesh d Cranfield University e University of Hull Abstract: Together, renewable energy s ystems (RES) and distributed and digiti zed smart energy networks (SEN) provide opportunities to maximi ze energy efficiency, reduce transmission losses and drive down greenh ouse gas emissions. Yet, such integrated Smart Local Energy Systems (SLES) are in the early stages of development and the technologies that underpin them lack testbeds where they can be developed and tested in a real -world environment . Here we demonstrate the potential role of one of Europe s largest at scale multi -vector Sm art Energy Network Demonstrator - SEND, developed with in a living laboratory setting that provides a blueprint for the development and testing of low -carbon energy technologies on the UK s journey to net zero. 1. Introducti on Climate change continues to be a daunting challenge and is the single biggest global threat to ever face us. Globally, the energy sector (electricity, heat and transport ) is responsible for about 73 of greenh ouse gas emissions driving climate change 1 . The UK government has set a commitment to achieve net -zero carbon emissions by 2050 with decarboni sation of the energy sector as priority area s 2 . Thus, urgent development and deployment of low -carbon energy technologies are needed in the energy sector to: (i) better understand how we generate, distribute and consume energy and (ii) reduce our relian ce on fossil fuels to significantly reduce the greenhouse gas emissions. Although the deployment of low -carbon energy technologies is key to mitigating climate change, uncertainty about a technology s performance and the integration of different technologies is an important barrier to adoption 3 . Living labs can overcome such barriers by providing a real -world environment where such new low -carbon energy technologies and interventions can be researched, developed and trialled prior to larger -scale deployment. Without evidence that the low -carbon energy technologies being deployed have been tested and evaluat ed using a real -world environment, it is unlikely that the public and other stakeholders will risk ado pting and supporting them 4 . Further, the power in the living l ab approach in a higher education setting, is in the potential to maximise the impact acr oss both the education and research missions of a university, as well as in the benefits of working with business es and wider community with multiple stakeholders represented in discussions from the outset. In this comment article, we demonstrate the pote ntial role of Keele University s Smart Energy Network Demonstrator - SEND, developed within a living laboratory setting to provide the 2 bluep rint for research and testing of l ow-carbon energy technologies and the development of a Smart Local Energy Syst em as part of the UK s journey to net zero. 2. Overview of the SEND Funded by the European Regional Development Fund and Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), the Keele University SEND was established to create Europe s largest at scale multi -vector smart energy demonstrator on the Keele campus. The demonstrator provides a platform that allows energy generation, distribution, storage, forecasting and energy balancing to be intelli gently carried out across different energy sources using the Keele University campus as a genuine living laboratory as shown in Figure 1. Figure 1: Overview of the SEND Living Laboratory at Keele University - Electric vehicle charging points (top- left), renewable energy generation using wind and solar (top -right) , and SEND control room (bottom ) (copyright: Keele University) Keele University owns and oper ates all of the utilities on its 600 -acre campus, thus creating a single owner operator environment across power, gas, heat, telecoms, water and drainage. The campus operates at the scale of a small town with 5,000 residents and more than 12,000 staff and students on campus per day and includes over 100 domestic properties for staff housing, as well as over 3000 student residential bedrooms, catering and leisure facilities, and office, teaching and laboratory environments. Annual energy demand across the campus is circa 63 GWh. Being a private network, SEND is able to integrate existing gas, water, and electricity networks to form a digitally managed , flexible and extensible smart system. Keele University has worked with Siemens and Equans to install the following infrastructure on the SEND network: 1500 smart meters (electric, heat and gas), 5.5MW Solar farm, 1.9 MW wind turbines, 1 MW battery 3 storage, upgrade of 25 substations, Spectrum distribution management system, decentralized energy management system (DEMS), Mindsphere (IoT cloud platform), SEND digital twin, IoT smart appliance control , over 20 EV charging points, and many residential , commercial and industrial controllers. The SEND system is an idea l testbed to explore how intelligent generation and distribution of electrical energy can be managed in a SLES environment. SEND enables t he campus system operators to control how the generation from the renewable energy sources is self -consumed in the Keele distribution network, feed -in of the excess generation to the grid and optimize the energy use on campus by measuring the grid carbon i ntensity. This is an innovative scheme in the way that the researchers and system operators can test novel leading -edge algorithms, methodologies and resolutions for energy distribution in a closed environment with energy - conscious consumers. The Living Lab approach also provides the opportunity for essential research to better understand the real use patterns and perceptions of smart energy system components of diverse energy users, and exploration of challenges at the socio -technical interface, as well as offering the opportunity
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	2019. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2019.05.126. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 1 Repurposing an Energy System Optimization Model for Seasonal Power Generation Planning A.R. de Queiroza,b, D. Mulcahyc, A. Sankarasubramanianb, J.P. Deaned, G. Mahinthakumarb, N. Luc, J.F. DeCarolisb a Department of Decision Sciences, School of Business NC Central University 1801 Fayetteville Rd Durham, NC 27707 Email: adequeiroz nccu.edu b Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering NC State University 2501 Stinson Drive Box 7908 Raleigh, NC 27695 Emails: arqueiroz ncsu.edu, jdecarolis ncsu.edu, sankar_arumugam ncsu.edu, gmkumar ncsu.edu c Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering NC State University 890 Oval Drive Raleigh, NC 27606 Emails: djmulcah ncsu.edu, nlu2 ncsu.edu d Energy Policy and Modelling Group University College Cork College Road, Cork T12 K8AF Email: Jp.Deane ucc.ie Abstract Seasonal climate variations affect electricity demand, which in turn affects month-to-month electricity planning and operations. Electricity system planning at the monthly timescale can be improved by adapting climate forecasts to estimate electricity demand and utilizing energy models to estimate monthly electricity generation and associated operational costs. The objective of this paper is to develop and test a computationally efficient model that can support seasonal planning while preserving key aspects of system operation over hourly and daily timeframes. To do so, an energy system optimization model is repurposed for seasonal planning using features drawn from a unit commitment model. Different scenarios utilizing a well-known test system are used to evaluate the errors associated with both the repurposed energy system model and an imperfect load forecast. The results show that the energy system optimization model using an imperfect load forecast produces differences in monthly cost and generation levels that are less than 2 compared with a unit commitment model using a perfect load forecast. The enhanced energy system optimization model can be solved approximately 100 times faster than the unit commitment model, making it a suitable tool for future work aimed at evaluating seasonal electricity generation and demand under uncertainty. Keywords: Power generation planning, Unit commitment, Energy system optimization, Seasonal demand forecasts, Mathematical programming 2019. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2019.05.126. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 2 1. INTRODUCTION Power systems planning has generally focused on two different functions operations and capacity expansion which require models that operate at fundamentally different timescales. Unit commitment models (UCMs) are employed for power system operations by considering the hour-by-hour commitment and dispatch of generating units (Wood and Wollenberg, 2012). UCMs assume a time horizon that typically ranges from one day to one week. By contrast, energy system optimization models (ESOMs) are used for capacity expansion planning by considering changes in installed capacity and utilization over future decades. In between these time scales daily and decadal an emerging timescale of interest is seasonal (Zhou et al., 2018). Seasonal modeling can potentially lower the cost of electricity supply through improved planning related to seasonal generation and transmission system forced and unforced outages, emissions allowances in coming months, forward purchases of fuel reserves (e.g., coal stock piles), demand response, and hydroelectric releases. Renewable resource availability (e.g., wind, solar insolation, water inflow) is an increasingly important determinant of system dispatch costs (Perez-Arriaga and Battle, 2012), and its temporal variability affects seasonal planning. Electricity demand also exhibits temporal variability at the seasonal scale due to varying temperatures (e.g., Apadula et al., 2012). At seasonal to interannual time scales, energy demand primarily depends on temperature and is lowest if the mean daily temperature ranges from 60 F-70 F (Changnon et al., 1995). Residential and commercial demands are quite temperature sensitive and significant deviations in mean daily temperatures in a given season can translate into 5-10 fluctuations in total electricity demand, which can severely stress the power grid (Changnon et al., 1995). Thus, both supply and demand of power systems are significantly affected by seasonal variations in climate, which could be predicted in advance based on known climatic and land-surface conditions influencing the region (Oludhe et al., 2013). Recent advances in monthly-to-seasonal climate predictions show that the skill in predicting both precipitation (Li et al., 2008) and temperature could be utilized to develop hydro inflow and electricity demand forecasts. For example, Changnon and Kunkel (1999) describe the use of climate data and predictions to inform agriculture and water resources management in several applications. This improved monthly-to-seasonal information is also crucial to advise planning and operations in power systems problems such as the hydro-thermal coordination (de Queiroz, 2016). However, there are unavoidable forecast errors in any model, and as a result, real-life power system operations do not precisely match the plan (Jiang et al., 2018). There are different methods for creating electricity demand forecasts based on quantitative techniques (e.g., semi-parametric additive models, autoregressive and moving average models, and exponential smoothing models) and artificial intelligence 2019. https: doi.org 10.1016 j.energy.2019.05.126. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 license http: creativecommons.org licenses by-nc-nd 4.0 3 techniques (e.g., artificial neural networks, fuzzy regression models and support vector machines). While beyond the scope of this paper, Hong and Fan (2016) review the benefits and drawbacks of these methods. Power system planning at a monthly to seasonal timescale requires electricity demand forecasts, which depend on climate forecasts. But planning at this time scale requires a power system model that incorporates features of both UCMs and ESOMs. For instance, monthly generation levels can be forecast with UCMs by aggregating hourly dispatch decisions. However, the mixed integer linear programing (MILP) formulation associated with UCMs can make them computationally intractable over the monthly to seasonal time scale, especially when embedding uncertainty within the model formulation (Takriti et al., 1996). By contrast, ESOMs usually have a linear formulation and are computationally tractable but have a coarse grain temporal resolution that limits the accuracy of dispatch decisions, often ignoring the detailed congestion and operational constraints that are explicitly incorporated in UCMs. Detailed consideration of short-term supply and demand is not the core focus of ESOMs (Welsch
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	The short version of this paper was presented at virtual CUE2021, Sept 4 8, 2021. This paper is a substantial extension of the short version of conference paper. This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (52007123) Corresponding authors: Xinwei Shen (sxw.tbsi sz. tsinghua.edu.cn), Hongbin Sun (shb tsinghua.edu.cn). Abstract-- The concept of low-carbon building is proposed to ameliorate the climate change caused by environmental problems and realize carbon neutrality at the building level in urban areas. In addition, renewable energy curtailment in the power distribution system, as well as low efficiency due to independent operation of traditional energy systems, has been addressed by the application of integrated energy system (IES) to some extent. In this paper, we propose a planning method for low-carbon building-level IES, in which electric vehicles (EV) and the mode of Vehicle to Grid (V2G) are considered and further increase the flexibility of low-carbon buildings. The proposed planning model optimize the investment, operation costs and CO2 emission for building-level IES, so as to achieve the maximum benefit of the construction of the low-carbon building and help the realization of carbon neutrality. Moreover, we consider the uncertainty of distributed renewable energy, multi-energy load fluctuation and the random behavior of EV users, then formulating a two-stage stochastic programming model with chance constraints, in which heuristic moment matching scenario generation (HMMSG) and sample average approximation (SAA) method are applied. In case study, a real IES commercial building in Shanghai, where photovoltaic (PV), energy storage system (ESS), fuel cell (FC), EV, etc. are included as planning options, is used as numerical example to verify the effectiveness of the proposed planning method, with functions of ESS and EV in IES are analyzed in detail in different operation scenarios. Index Terms-- Low-carbon building-level integrated energy system, stochastic programming, chance constraint, electric vehicle, energy storage system NOMENCLATURE Abbreviations: IES Integrated Energy System EV Electric Vehicle V2G Vehicle to Grid HMMSG Heuristic Moment Matching Scenario Generation SAA Sample Average Approximation ESS Energy Storage System FC Fuel Cell CCTS Chance-Constrained Two-Stage EH Energy Hub SOFC Solid Oxide Fuel Cell PEM Polymer Electrolyte Membrane PV Photovoltaic SOC State of Charge P2G Power to gas Sets: Set of fuel cell to be selected Set of the parking period of EV Indices: i Index of different kind of FC t Index of time hour j Index of EVs e,h,g,l Index of different kind of energy s Index of scenario ch dis Index of charge discharge Parameters: IC Investment cost of equipment m Coefficient to convert costs Discount rate of cash PP Planning period N Number of scenarios r Cost of electricity gas Tax for carbon emission Emission coefficient of fuel grid p Penalty of substandard SOC level NEV Number of EVs Load of the building-level IES Coupling matrix of EH model Charge Discharge efficiency of ESS EV Charge Discharge efficiency of ESS EV Maximum full charge times of BESS Proportion of substandard scenarios Maximum power of the grid Maximum power of FC Power of EV charger Maximum power of the PV Capacity of EV Variables: Vector Matrix of decision variables Capacity of ESS that will be invested, unit: kWh Numbers of FC that will be invested, unit: sets Output of the grid at time t in scenario s, unit: kW WparkingY gtaxCeLChaBESSchTVmaxGridP,maxFCiPthiEVchargerPmaxPVPmaxEVEX,P,Y,ZESSXFCiXthi,GridstPA Stochastic Planning Method for Low-carbon Building-level Integrated Energy System Considering Electric-Heat-V2G Coupling Zuxun Xiong a, Xinwei Shen a,b, , Qinglai Guo a,c, Hongbin Sun a,c, a Tsinghua-Berkeley Shenzhen Institute, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China b Institute for Ocean Engineering, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China c Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China b Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 2 Gas that the FC consumes at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Electricity output of FC at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Heating output of FC at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Charge power of ESS at time t in s, unit: kW Discharge power of ESS at time t in s, unit: kW Charge power of the EV at time t in s, unit: kW Discharge power of the EV at t in s, unit: kW Output of the PV at time t in scenario s, unit: kW Energy stored in ESS at time t in scenario s, unit: kWh Energy stored in the EV at time t in scenario s, unit: kWh Energy of the EV when it leaves in scenario s, unit: kWh Random vector Binary variable which indicates the charge state of ESS EV Binary variable which indicates the scenario is standard or not I. INTRODUCTION limate change caused by environmental problems is a significant issue of common concern to all mankind. More than 70 countries have committed to working toward net-zero emissions by 2050 and to enhance their international climate pledges under the Paris Agreement to ensure that global warming is controlled below 2 degrees Celsius. Among them, China proposes to reach the peak of carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. In this context, renewable energy such as photovoltaic (PV) and wind energy has developed rapidly. Besides, the rapid development of equipment like fuel cell (FC), which could be fueled by clean energy, and able to supply both electricity and heat, will further accelerate the process of achieving zero carbon emission. Moreover, the penetration rate of electric vehicles (EV) is increasing. With the development of vehicle to grid (V2G) related technologies, EVs have great application potential in both reducing carbon emissions and increasing the flexibility of the grid. However, these may also bring more problems and challenges to the energy system. To cope with such problems and make better use of the strong coupling and synergy between different energy systems, the concept of Energy Internet has become another important topic in the energy industry after the Smart Grid 1 . As the physical carrier of the Energy Internet, Integrated Energy System (IES)
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	How fast can one overcome the paradox of the energy transition? A physico-economic model for the European power grid Laurent Pagniera,b, Philippe Jacquoda aSchool of Engineering, University of Applied Sciences of Western Switzerland HES-SO CH-1951 Sion, Switzerland bInstitute of Theoretical Physics, EPF Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland Abstract The paradox of the energy transition is that the low marginal costs of new renewable energy sources (RES) drag elec- tricity prices down and discourage investments in exible productions that are needed to compensate for the lack of dispatchability of the new RES. The energy transition thus discourages the investments that are required for its own harmonious expansion. To investigate how this paradox can be overcome, we argue that, under certain assumptions, future electricity prices are rather accurately modeled from the residual load obtained by subtracting non- exible pro- ductions from the load. Armed with the resulting economic indicator, we investigate future revenues for European power plants with various degree of exibility. We nd that, if neither carbon taxes nor fuel prices change, exible productions would be nancially rewarded better and sooner if the energy transition proceeds faster but at more or less constant total production, i.e. by reducing the production of thermal power plants at the same rate as the RES production increases. Less exible productions, on the other hand, would see their revenue grow more moderately. Our results indicate that a faster energy transition with a quicker withdrawal of thermal power plants would reward exible productions faster. Keywords: Residual load, Electricity prices, Renewable energy 1. Introduction 1.1. The paradox of the energy transition The goal of the energy transition is to meet energy demand from human activities in a sustainable way. In the electricity sector, the transition currently increases the penetration of productions from new renewable en- ergy sources (RES), in particular solar photovoltaic pan- els (PV) and wind turbines (WT). These RES di er from the traditional productions they substitute for, in at least two very signi cant ways. First, they lack dispatchability and have little mechanical inertia, second, they have very low marginal production costs. Their lack of dispatcha- bility and mechanical inertia requires additional exible productions and possibly electrical energy storage (EES) to ensure the stability of the power grid as well as the balance of demand and supply at all times. Therefore in- creasing penetrations of new RES should be accompanied by signi cant investments in new facilities with rather long payback periods. However, the new RES s low marginal cost brings spot electricity prices and thus bene ciary mar- gins of electric power companies down, while further ex- tending the payback period for investments in new facil- ities. The energy transition is therefore confronted with the paradox that it creates economic conditions which, at least temporarily, strongly discourage the infrastructural Email addresses: laurent.pagnier epfl.ch (Laurent Pagnier), philippe.jacquod hevs.ch (Philippe Jacquod)investments it needs to progress further. Because of that, a number of hydroelectric plant projects are currently frozen in Europe. To plan the next steps in the energy transition, to evaluate and anticipate the investments needed for its safe, steady progress, it is therefore important to get a relatively good quantitative estimate of future electricity prices. The key issue is whether production exibility will soon be rewarded well enough that it will motivate in- vestments in fast dispatchable power plants and EES at a level consistent with the rate at which RES penetration increases. The traditional way to address such questions is to con- struct economic models for electricity production and con- sumption. Those models are standardly based on a num- ber of assumptions on general economic conditions, demo- graphic evolution, costs of di erent fuels, maintenance and production costs, amount of taxes and subsidies on energy production and so forth. Once all these ingredients are xed, both the electricity demand and the marginal cost of di erent productions can be estimated, which determine the market price of electricity, from which one nally com- putes expected future revenues. From these revenues, in- vestment decisions can ultimately be made. The accuracy of this procedure relies on the accuracy of each of the as- sumptions on which it is based. Unfortunately, the latter are to a high degree arbitrary economic growth rates, unemployment rates (indicative of the volume of indus- trial activities), taxation amounts, fuel costs (in particular natural gas prices), carbon taxes and so forth cannot be Preprint submitted to Elsevier June 18, 2018arXiv:1706.00330v2 physics.soc-ph 15 Jun 2018 MonTueWed Thu FriSatSun-20-10010203040Residual load GW 0102030405060 Day-ahead price EUR MWh MonTueWed Thu FriSatSun-100102030Residual load GW 1020304050 Day-ahead price EUR MWh Figure 1: German residual load (green) and day-ahead electricity price (blue) for a winter (top) and summer (bottom) week in 2015 data taken from ENTSO-E (2015a) . Vertical dashed lines indicate noon time. predicted accurately on time scales of decades, correspond- ing to typical payback times for investments in the energy sector. In this manuscript we take a deliberately di erent approach, using as few working hypotheses as possible. Eurotranselec , our model to be presented below, is mostly based on physical conditions extracted from the size and production types of national power plant eets as well as the electricity demand. We argue that it introduces a re- liable though quite simple procedure to evaluate future electricity prices in the not too far future, given scenar- ios for the energy transition and the resulting evolution of power plant eets. We use it to investigate revenues of electric power plants in a time window until 2020. 1.2. The residual load and electricity prices Our starting observation is that electricity prices re- ect the law of supply and demand. Accordingly they ex- hibit some degree of correlation with what exible sources must generate to sustain load the larger the di erence between demand and non-dispatchable supply, the higher the electricity price. As a matter of fact, spot market prices are usually higher at times of larger imbalance be- tween demand and non-dispatchable supply, when the im- balance leans strongly on the demand
__label__energy	PREPRINT 1 Aggregating Privacy-Conscious Distributed Energy Resources for Grid Service Provision Jun-Xing Chin, Member, IEEE, Andrey Bernstein, Member, IEEE, and Gabriela Hug, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The increasing adoption of advanced metering in- frastructure has led to growing concerns regarding privacy risks stemming from the high resolution measurements. This has given rise to privacy protection techniques that physically alter the consumer s energy load proﬁle, masking private information by using localised devices, e.g. batteries or ﬂexible loads. Mean- while, there has also been increasing interest in aggregating the distributed energy resources (DERs) of residential consumers to provide services to the grid. In this paper, we propose an online distributed algorithm to aggregate the DERs of privacy-conscious consumers to provide services to the grid, whilst preserving their privacy. Results show that the optimisation solution from the distributed method converges to one close to the optimum computed using an ideal centralised solution method, balancing between grid service provision, consumer preferences and privacy protection. More importantly, the distributed method preserves consumer privacy, and does not require high-bandwidth two-way communications infrastructure. Index Terms Ancillary Services, Consumer Privacy, Online Gradient Descent, Mutual Information, Optimisation Methods, Smart Meter, Advanced Metering Infrastructure I. I NTRODUCTION In recent years, the adoption rate of advanced metering in- frastructure (AMI) using smart meters (SMs) has risen steadily across the globe as part of grid modernisation efforts. As of January 2017, 52 of the 150 million electricity consumers in the US have AMI 1 , while in Europe, 13 member states are expected to have AMI adoption rates of over 95 by 2020 2 . In Switzerland, 80 of all electricity meters are to be replaced with SMs by 2027 3 . AMI provides high-frequency energy consumption measurements to utility operators, allowing for data-driven grid management and planning techniques that promise to improve grid efﬁciency and transparency. However, this data also entails serious privacy risks for consumers, as it reveals their detailed electricity consumption proﬁles. Recent studies have shown that potential illnesses, religious practices, socio-demographic proﬁle, and even appliances used can be inferred from AMI data through data analytics and non- intrusive load monitoring techniques 4 8 . A. Smart Meter Consumer Privacy These risks and recent developments in consumer privacy protection laws such as the European Union s General Data This work was supported in part by the Swiss National Science Foundation for the COPES project under the CHIST-ERA Resilient Trustworthy Cyber- Physical Systems (RTCPS) initiative. J.X. Chin, and G. Hug are with the Power Systems Laboratory, ETH Zurich, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland. Email: fchinjhugg eeh.ee.ethz.ch. A. Bernstein is with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401, USA. Email: Andrey.Bernstein nrel.govProtection Regulation 9 , have spurred the development of privacy-enhancing methods for consumers with AMI, which can be split into two categories: smart meter data manipulation (SMDM) and user demand shaping (UDS) 10 . SMDM involves pre-processing the AMI data before it is reported, e.g., data aggregation, data anonymisation, and data obfus- cation. UDS, on the other hand, entails physically shaping the consumer demand such that the grid-visible load, i.e., the grid load no longer reveals private information present in the actual privacy-sensitive consumer load . This is achieved by using behind-the-meter resources such as energy storage devices, ﬂexible loads, and distributed energy sources. While the former may be cheaper to implement, they may impact the utility of the AMI data due to the distortion in the meter readings or may require trusted third parties, e.g, as proposed in 11 , 12 . Moreover, as they do not tackle the issue on the physical level, i.e., the actual energy ﬂow, it might be possible to still decipher the actual consumption depending on the protection used 13 . One of the ﬁrst UDS schemes is described in 14 , where the authors implement a best effort scheme to keep the grid load constant. However, this has been shown to leak information whenever there is a change in grid load 15 , and has since been followed up by more complex schemes such as 16 19 . In 16 , the authors propose a differential-privacy based protection scheme using an ideal battery to mask the on off status of appliances while being cost-friendly. Using a model- distribution predictive control (MDPC) scheme that balances between minimising energy cost and a proxy for privacy loss, the authors in 17 show that a home energy controller can be designed to directly minimise an approximate of mutual information between the grid and consumer loads. And in 18 , the authors propose Q-learning based privacy-enhancing control policies using electric vehicles (EVs), ﬂexible thermal loads, and energy storage devices to overcome limitations in modelling consumer load statistics. The control policies are tested on simulated load proﬁles with an ideal battery and a linearised thermal load model, and show that reasonable privacy-cost trade-off can be achieved by combining a small battery with EVs and an air conditioning device. The authors in 19 derived fundamental bounds on mutual information privacy for consumers with renewable energy sources (RES), both with and without an inﬁnite battery, and proposed a sub- optimal privacy-enhancing scheme for realistic cases (ﬁnite battery) based on stochastic gradient descent. Note that in the absence of a battery, privacy can be enhanced through the curtailment of the available RES production.arXiv:1909.01215v2 eess.SY 26 Oct 2020 PREPRINT 2 B. Residential Demand Side Aggregation and UDS Schemes Meanwhile, the increasing availability of behind-the-meter resources, a.k.a. distributed energy resources (DERs), coupled with the roll-out of smart grid communications infrastructure has spurred the development of demand-side management for smaller loads. Residential consumers, which have traditionally been neglected due to their size, are being aggregated in order to provide services to the grid. Residential demand side aggre- gation (RDSA) schemes can be divided into two main classes: direct load control, and incentive (signal) based schemes. The authors in 20 provide an overview of incentive based RDSA literature, and propose a multi-agent non-cooperative game framework for integrating RDSA schemes with home energy management systems (HEMSs). Nonetheless,
__label__energy	arXiv:2207.00286v1 cond-mat.other 1 Jul 2022Antiferromagnetic half-skyrmions electrically generate d and controlled at room temperature O. J. Amin1, S. F. Poole1, S. Reimers1,2,3, L. X. Barton1, F. Maccherozzi2, S. S. Dhesi2, V. Novák4, F. Křížek4, J. S. Chauhan1, R. P. Campion1, A. W. Rushforth1, T. Jungwirth1,4, O. A. Tretiakov5, K. W. Edmonds1, and P. Wadley1 1School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, United Kingdom 2Diamond Light Source, Chilton, OX11 0DE, United Kingdom 3Johannes Gutenberg Universität Mainz, Institut für Physik , Staudingerweg 7, 55128 Mainz, Germany 4Institute of Physics, Czech Academy of Sciences, 162 00 Praha 6, Prague, Czech Republic 5School of Physics, The University of New South Wales, Sydney 2 052, Australia July 4, 2022 Abstract Topologically protected magnetic textures, such as skyrmi ons, half-skyrmions (merons) and their antiparticles, constitute tiny whirls i n the magnetic order. They are promising candidates for information carriers in next- generation memory de- vices, as they can be eﬃciently propelled at very high veloci ties using current- induced spin torques 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 . Antiferromagnets hav e been shown to host versions of these textures, which have gained signiﬁca nt attention because of their potential for terahertz dynamics, deﬂection free m otion, and improved size scaling due to the absence of stray ﬁeld 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 1 2 . Here we show that topological spin textures, merons and antimerons, can be generated at room temperature and reversibly moved using electrical pulses i n thin ﬁlm CuMnAs, a semimetallic antiferromagnet that is a testbed system for s pintronic applications 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 . The electrical generation and ma nipulation of antifer- romagnetic merons is a crucial step towards realizing the fu ll potential of antifer- romagnetic thin ﬁlms as active components in high density, h igh speed magnetic memory devices. The deﬁning feature of a topological texture is a non-zero wi nding number, also called topological charge. In magnetic systems, this is a measure of the integer number of times the order parameter wraps around a unit sphere (Bloch sphere) when integrated ov er the texture volume. Magnetic textures with diﬀerent winding numbers are topologically d istinct and cannot be easily changed from one topological state to another. This provides strong prot ection against perturbation and prevents their collapse even at ultrasmall sizes 20 . In ferromagne tic (FM) thin ﬁlms, where the magnetization deﬁnes the topological charge, Q, skyrmions ( Q 1) and merons ( Q 1 2) have been generated and controlled using external ﬁelds and current-induced sp in torques 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 . However, their implementation into practical devices has b een limited by the presence of gyrotropic forces, originating from their topology, that cause an unwa nted transverse deﬂection to their current- driven motion 29 . This eﬀect is alleviated in antiferromagnets (AFs) due to th eir compensated FM sublattices. The AF order parameter, called the Néel vector, is given by L M1 M2in collinear AFs, where M1and 1 M2are antiparallel sublattice magnetizations. Analogous to the magnetization in FMs, the Néel vector deﬁnes the Néel topological charge, QN, of the AF spin texture. However, current-induced gyrotropic forces, F(k) gyro G(k)ˆz J, depend on the gyrocoupling constant G 4πQ(k), which is a function of the sublattice topological charge, Q(k). When integrated over the texture volume the gyrotropic forces fully compensate, resulting in a remaini ng generalized drag force, Fdrag ΓβJ, in the direction of the current, where βis the sum of the current-induced spin torques acting on the AF topological texture 8 . The dynamics of the AF topolo gical texture under the action of current-induced spin torques is described by the generaliz ed Thiele s equation 30, 31, 32 , Fi Mij bj αΓij bj, (1) where the bjare the collective coordinates of the topological spin stru cture,Mijis the mass tensor, andαΓijcharacterizes the viscous friction. The AF topological tex ture is propelled by this force at terminal velocity v bardbl βJ, parallel to the current direction, as shown schematically in Fig. 1a. c d Figure 1: AF textures in CuMnAs. a, Spin structure and force a cting on an AF Bloch-type meron under an applied current pulse J. b, Unit cell and magnetic structure of CuMnAs. c, d, XMLD- PEEM images of a vortex structure in CuMnAs. The blue single- and double-headed arrows indicate the x-ray incidence and polarization vectors, while the col our wheels and red double-headed arrows indicate the spin axis orientation inferred from the XMLD co ntrast. The scale bar corresponds to 1µm. e, Optical image of the device structure used for electrica l pulsing. The spatial scale bar corresponds to 10µm. The incentive for ﬁnding host materials has led to the experi mental observation of AF topological textures in complex systems, including synthetic AF hetero structures 11 and FM AF bilayers 9, 10, 12 . Recently, the nucleation of merons and antimero ns has been demonstrated in a pure AF material, α-Fe2O3 7 . However, nucleation methods requiring either externa l magnetic ﬁelds 2 or thermal cycling are impractical for integrable devices. It has also yet to be shown that, once generated, topological AF textures can be controllably mov ed. Here, we bridge this gap by showing that AF merons and antimerons can be electrically generated and controlled at room temperature in a conducting AF material, CuMnAs. CuMnAs has the required cr ystal symmetries to host current- induced Néel spin orbit torques (NSOTs), which can eﬃcientl y manipulate the AF order 13 . This makes it an ideal candidate material for AF-based spintroni c devices. Our experiments are performed on tetragonal phase CuMnAs (s pace group P4 nmm), epitaxially grown on a lattice-matched GaP(001) substrate 33 . Below t he Néel temperature of 480K, the Mn atoms form two magnetic sublattices which are stacked ver tically in the crystallographic c-axis (Fig. 1b). The magnetic easy axis lies in the ab-plane due to magnetocrystalline anisotropy. The precise behaviour of the magnetic
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	2025 PhotonIcs Electromagnetics Research Symposium, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 4 -8 May PIERS Energy consumption of Robotic Arm with the Local Reduction Method Halima Ibrahim Kure1, Jishna Retnakumari1, Lucian Nita1, Saeed Sharif1, Hamed Balogun2, and Augustine O. Nwajana3 1University of East London UK 2Edge Hill University UK 3University of Greenwich, UK Abstract Energy consumption in robotic arms is a significant concern in industrial automation due to rising operational costs and environmental impact. This study investigates the use of a local reduction method to optimize energy efficiency in robotic systems without compromising performance. The approach refines movement parameters , minimizing energy use while maintaining precision and operational reliability. A three -joint robotic arm model was tested using simulation over a 30 -second period for various tasks, including pick -and-place and trajectory -following operations. The results revealed that the local reduction method reduced energy consumption by up to 25 compared to traditional techniques such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) and Genetic Algorithms (GA). Unlike MPC, which requires significant computational resources, and GA, which has slow convergence rates, the local reduction method demonstrated superior adaptability and computational efficiency in real -time applications. The study highlights the scalability and simplicity of the local reduction approach, making it an attractive option for industries seeking sustainable and cost -effective solutions. Additionally, this method can integrate seamlessly with emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI), further enhancing its application in dynamic and complex environments. This research underscores the potential of the local reduction method as a practical tool for optimizing robotic arm operations, reducing energy demands, and contributing to sustainability in industrial automation. Future work will focus on extending the approach to real - world scenarios and incorporating AI -driven adjustments for more dynamic adaptability. Keywords Energy Optimization, Robotic Arm, Local Reduction Method, Trajectory Optimization, Sustainable Robotics I. INTRODUCTION Modern production relies heavily on industrial automation, particularly when it is in use robotic arms 1 . Though effective, robotic systems are sometimes using lot of energy, which increases expenses and also affect the environmental impact 2 . By lowering energy needs that too without sacrificing performance, energy optimization in robotic operations can help to address these issues 3 . The aim of this work is to minimize energy consumption in robotic arms by using an optimization strategy derived from the local reduction method. Unlike conventional techniques, which can concentrate on trajectory or component -specific optimizations 4 , the local reduction method iteratively refines movements based on energy consumption across the entire operation 5 . This work applies this approach to a robotic arm model and simulates its performance to evaluate if energy savings can be achieved. II. LITERATURE REVIEW In industrial automation, where performance and efficiency are crucial aspect, robotic arms are commonly utilized to achieve this. Research has shown that optimization of robotic arm movement for energy efficiency is very important 6 . By regulating joint motions, movement and torque can greatly reduce energy consumption while maintaining required performance levels 7 . Model Predictive Control (MPC): MPC forecasts the future states of a system that it will reach and modifies its control inputs to minimize energy use 8 . While it is effective, it requires high computational resource which limit its application in resource -constrained contexts 9 . Genetic Algorithms (GA): GA uses a natural selection principle to optimize joint configurations for energy efficiency 1 0 . Although it is also adaptable, GA s iterative structure can take a very long time for convergence, making it less suitable for real -time applications 1 1 . Artificial Intelligence (AI): AI-based techniques dynamically adjust robotic pathways in response to changing conditions, providing flexibility and efficiency 12 . These methods excel in dynamic environments but require substantial training data 1 3 . Local Reduction Method: By repeatedly iterating refining movement parameters to achieve energy requirements, the local reduction method offers computational efficiency and adaptability for real -time applications. It does not rely on predictive modeling or iterative population searches, making it a promising alternative 14 . In conclusion, while MPC and GA are effective, their computational demands limit real -time application. The local reduction method offers a computationally efficient alternative suitable for industrial use 15 . 2025 PhotonIcs Electromagnetics Research Symposium, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 4 -8 May PIERS III. METHODOLOGY This section details the methods used to model energy consumption and apply the local reduction method for optimization. Problem Formulation The energy consumption for a joint is calculated by integrating the product of torque and angular velocity over time. The energy consumption minimization problem will be formul ated as an objective function: (1) where τi (t) is the torque applied to joint i and ωi(t) is the angular velocity of joint i. This integral represents the total energy consumed by all joints of the robotic arm over the operation period from t0 to tf. Constraints 1. Reach Constraint: Ensuring the arm can reach all required positions: Reach (x, y, z) Max This constraint ensures that the robotic arm can physically reach the required positions within its workspace. 2. Strength Constrain t: Ensuring the torque applied to each joint is within allowable limits: τi τi, max This constraint ensures that the joints do not exceed their maximum torque capacity, preventing damage and ensuring safe operation. 3. Precision Constraint: Ensuring the en d effector achieves the desired position within a specified error margin: Position Error ϵ This constraint ensures that the robotic arm can achieve the desired precision, which is critical for tasks requiring high accuracy. Local Reduction Method Implem entation 1. Initialization: Set k 0 and choose an initial finite subset Y0 Y. 2. Approximating Problem: Solve the kth approximating problem to compute xk . 3. Auxiliary Problem: Solve the kth auxiliary problem to find the most violated constraint and update the co nstraint set. 4. Iteration: Check for convergence and update k. Repeat until the solution meets all constraints. Simulation Setup The robotic arm model includes three joints, with each joint having defined lengths and angular ranges. Energy consumption is calculated
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	A Silicon MEMS EM vibration energy harvester Y. Yang, U. Radhakrishna, D. Ward, A. P. Chandrakasan and J. H. Lang MIT, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. E-mail: markyang mit.edu Abstract. This paper presents an optimized silicon-MEMS electromagnetic vibration energy harvester suitable for applications such as machine health monitoring. The harvester comprises a DRIE-etched silicon suspension, and pick-and-place N42 NdBFe magnets and copper coils, housed in a 3D-printed package. The harvester is designed to operate near 50 Hz with 0.5-1 g vibrations using a long-stroke suspension. Multi-domain harvester optimization results in an open-circuit voltage of 1.7 V, a matched-load power output of 2.2 mW, and a matched-load power-output density of 1.23 mW cm3at 1.1 gwith a resonance frequency of 76 :3Hz. 1. Introduction This paper presents a vibration energy harvester, employing a Lorentz-force energy converter, that is suitable for powering miniaturized autonomous IoT sensors 1 2 . The harvester comprises a DRIE-etched silicon suspension, and pick-and-place N42 NdBFe magnets and copper coils, all enclosed in a 3D-printed plastic package. The harvester has an active volume of 1.79 cm3, and an output power POutof 2.2 mW at 1 :1gand 76 Hz under matched load, yielding a power density (PD) of 1.23 mW cm3and a normalized power density (NPD) of 1.02 mW cm3 g2, the highest reported PD and NPD among silicon-based MEMS harvesters reported to date 2 . The high POutfollows the use of a four-bar-linkage suspension that lowers beam stress compared to our earlier accordion suspension 3 , enabling mm-range strokes and hence mW-level POut. The key contributions here are: (i) large-stroke (2 mm) silicon suspensions with stress analysis, (ii) harvester implementation yielding POut 2:2 mW, and (iii) optimized design guidelines and scaling to further reduce harvester size while preserving POut. 2. Design and Optimization As described below, harvester design is based on optimizations over mechanical, magnetic and electrical domains. To begin, a mechanical optimization of the harvester spring-mass-damper system is executed following 3 . To do so, the mechanical power PMconverted by the harvester is expressed at resonance in sinusoidal steady state in the absence of mechanical loss as PM B!2X2 2 !XMA 2 !XA (L1 2S)L2L3 2 (1) where damping coe cient Bis a proxy for energy conversion through the Lorentz-force energy converter,!is the resonance frequency, Xis the stroke amplitude, Mis the proof-mass mass, Ais vibration acceleration, is the density of the proof mass, L1,L2andL3are the dimensions of the harvester with L1in the stroke direction, and S Xis the single-sided space within L1arXiv:1910.02131v1 physics.app-ph 4 Oct 2019 Figure 1. (a) Cross-sectional side view of the harvester. (b) Top view of the suspension and magnets glued together. (c) Individual 3D-printed packaging parts to be combined. (d) Harvester at its maximum de ection showing the bending of the beams. allocated for stroke; the assumption of negligible mechanical loss is supported by experimental observation. Following 3 , PMis maximized when X S L1 4, yielding PM;Max !SA (L1 2S)L2L3 2 !AL2 1L2L3 16: (2) Thus,L1, is allocated equally to the mass and bi-directional stroke 2 X. This assumes the suspension springs permit (nearly) all of Sto be used for X, which was true for the accordion suspension 3 . Finally, following (2), the longest harvester dimension is used for the stroke directionL1for maximum PM. Note that to achieve the maximized power in (2), the Lorentz- force energy converter must provide the damping Brequired to satisfy (1) and X L1 4. To achieve POutin the mW range, the stroke Xmust be in the mm range. Our previous accordion suspension 3 did not yield large Xas the springs fractured at X 0:6 mm due to high stress caused by the side-bar used to raise the resonant frequencies of the higher-order vibration modes. A four-bar-linkage suspension is chosen here to overcome the spring fracture at large strokes while raising the resonance frequencies of the higher-order modes. Figures 1(a)- (b) show a cross-sectional side-view of the fabricated harvester and a top-view of the silicon four-bar-linkage suspension. The four-bar linkage is not as space e cient as the accordion suspension as it requires X S 2.PMin (1) is then maximized with X S 2 L1 8, yielding PM;Max !SA (L1 2S)L2L3 4 !AL2 1L2L3 32: (3) However, the springs in the new suspension should experience lower stress than in 3 because they are not torqued by the side bar. This is evident from the spring bending at maximum stroke shown in Figure 1(d). Second, the spring widths are tapered via narrowing towards their middle to create a more uniform stress pro le. Third, the joints are designed to have symmetric llets with radius of ve spring widths to further reduce stress. Fourth, the spring length is increased to reduce strain. These precautions yield the desired stroke of X S 2 2 mm as shown in Figure 1(d), the largest stroke reported in a Si-MEMS harvester suspension 2 . The suspension is dimensioned to achieve a near-50-Hz resonance subject to the constraints that the spring width exceeds 25 m as limited by etch resolution, and beam stress is less than 130 MPa. Figure 2(a) shows the resonant modal analysis for the optimized suspension highlighting a fundamental resonance translational mode fResclose to 50 Hz and a 5-fold separation between fResand higher-order resonance frequencies. Solidworks simulations show the lowest resonant modes are: translational along L1at 76Hz; translational along the L3 (magnetic pole) direction at 270 Hz; and rotational about L3at 575 Hz. The stress analysis in Figure 2(b) also shows that the maximum beam stress at full stroke is 130 MPa compared to 460 MPa in the accordion suspension. Thus, the mechanical optimization achieves optimum resource allocation for mass and stroke while the suspension exhibits the desired fResandX. Two anti-parallel N42 NdBFe permanent magnets are the magnetic ux source through which Bis implemented, and the proof mass because they o er higher mass density than loose windings. 4.57x108 0 Pa2.03x1081.02x1083.05x108(a)(b)Resonant modal analysisNon-linear stress analysisf1 76.3 Hzf3 734 Hzf2 270 Hz xmax 2 mmxmax 2 mmSmax 0.46 GPaSmax 0.13 GPa (c)XXFigure 2.
__label__energy	1 Abstract The possibility for hydrocarbon fluids to migrate through debonded micro -annuli wells is a major concern in the petroleum industry. With effective permeability of 0.1 1.0 m D, the e xistence of channels in a cement annulus with apertures of 10 300 µm constitutes a major threat. Squeeze cement is typically difficult to repair channels -leakage with small apertures; hence, a low -viscosity sealer that can be inserted into these channels w hile producing a long -term resilient seal is sought. A novel application using nano -silica sealants could be the key to seal these channels. In the construction and sealing of hydrocarbon wells, cementing is a critical phase. Cement is prone to cracking during the life cycle of a well because of the changes in downhole conditions. The usage of micro -sized cross -linked nano -silica gel as a seala nt material to minimize damaged cement sheaths is investigated in this study. Fluid leakage through channels in the cement was investigated using an experimental system. With a diameter of 0.05 inches, the impact of the cement channel size was explored. Th e sealing efficiency increased from 86 percent to 95 percent when the nano -silica concentration of the sealing gel increased from 13 percent to 25 percent. This demonstrates that the concentration of nano -silica in the sealing gel affects the gel s ability to seal against fluid flow . This research proposes a new way for improving cement zonal isolation and thereby lowering the impact of cement failure in the oil and gas industry. Introduction Cementing engineering is one of the most important issues in the drilling operations, which operates in tough and challenging settings with temperature and pressure restrictions (Wojtanowicz et al., 2016). When a well fails, various factors come into play, including leakage, cementing, and so on. In this scenario, a variety of solutions can successfully improve industrial processes, with a focus on cement characteristics, crack sealing, shielding permeability reduction, gas migration management, and so on. During hydrocarbon production, external influences such as tem perature and pressure cause the well cement to fracture, allowing fluid to leak at the wellbore contact (Dusseault et al, 2014). As a result, the leak has a substantial influence on the ecology, putting oil workers and other aquatic wildlife s safety in j eopardy (Davies et al, 2014). Cement is prone to cracking during the life of the well because of changes in downhole environment. During drilling or production operations, the cement integrity must never be jeopardized. If the cement is not properly finis hed and abandoned, leaks can occur at any time during the well s life (Watson and Bachu, 2009). Fluids (water or hydrocarbons) can move through channels within the cement or between the cement and its environment. These channels form when the wellbore inte grity is compromised, allowing formation fluids to travel between formations and or from the formation to the surface. Personnel and the environment are put at risk when water, gases, and hydrocarbon substances leak through cement routes (Davies et al., 20 14). Mechanical failures as a result of pressure and temperature cycles, chemical degradation owing to corrosive formation fluids (Zhang and Bachu, 2010), or inappropriate slurry design can all provide leakage paths in the cement annulus. The use of low-density slurries, which may allow formation fluids to create channels within the cement sheath, high -fluid -loss slurries, which may affect the mechanical properties of the set cement, and rigid cement, which can get fracked as a result of casing expansions a nd contractions, are all examples of poor slurry design. Furthermore, failures might arise as a result of incorrect mud clearance. The mud on the formation s and casing s surface can hinder the cement from adhering with its surroundings, The application of Nano -silica gel in sealing well micro -annuli and cement channe ling Olatunji Olayiwola1, Vu Nguyen1, Randy Andres1, Ning Liu1. 1 University of Louisiana at Lafayette, USA 2 resulting in micro -annuli. These and other defects can occur, allowing formation fluids to pass through the cement barrier. Cement squeeze remedial operations are commonly used to fix cement leaks. However, due to low cement injectivity, pressure restriction, pin -hole leaka ge, micro -channels and fractures inside the leaked formation, and micro -cracks within primary cement, cement squeeze cannot be employed successfully to reduce and prevent leakage in some instances (Jones et al. 2014) . Although micro fine cement is designed to promote penetration, the underlying problem of cement and steel casing adhesion versus cohesive bond failure in the downhole environment is not addressed by most, if not all, current repair materials. Adhesion failure is characterized by brittleness an d unpredictability. A typical adhesion failure is cement -steel failure. However, delivering the gel fluid to the fracture zone before it gels is a major challenge in remedial operations. The rheology of the gel controls the occurrence. (Zareie, C., 2019). To address this problem, the gel mixture s composition is designed to have a long gelation time and low viscosity, allowing it to be pumped and crosslinked during oil well workovers (Zhang, X. et. al, 2015) . Because of their low thermal conductivity, low refractive index, high optical transparency, and large surface area, Nano -silica particles have gotten a lot of attention in well remedial operations. Cross -linking of polymers contributes to the formation of the silica network. The gel state, a colloidal intermediate phase between the solution and the solid state, has a three -dimensional structure and has promising applications in a variety of fields. State of the Art Cement squeeze operations are used to repair wells with poor primary cementing jobs or suspected leaks, in which additional cement is injected through perforations produced in the casing near the suspected source of leakage to ensure appropriate zonal isolation. Squeeze cementing is a corrective procedure that includes applying differential pressure across the cement slurry in order to dehydrate the cement (Goodwin, 1984). In theory, the slurry is supposed to reach and fill the
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	Frequency and duration of low-wind-power events in Germany Nils Ohlendorfa, Wolf-Peter Schillb,c, aMercator Research Institute on Global Commons and Climate Change (MCC), EUREF Campus 19, Torgauer Strae 12-15, 10829 Berlin, Germany bGerman Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin), Mohrenstrasse 58, 10117 Berlin, Germany cEnergy Transition Hub, Climate Energy College, The University of Melbourne Abstract In the transition to a renewable energy system, the occurrence of low-wind- power events receives increasing attention. We analyze the frequency and du- ration of such events for onshore wind power in Germany, based on 40 years of reanalysis data and open software. We nd that low-wind-power events are less frequent in winter than in summer, but the maximum duration is distributed more evenly between months. While short events are frequent, very long events are much rarer. Every year, a period of around ve consecutive days with an average wind capacity factor below 10 occurs, and every ten years a respective period of nearly eight days. These durations decrease if only winter months are considered. The longest event in the data lasts nearly ten days. We conclude that public concerns about low-wind-power events in winter may be overrated, but recommend that modeling studies consider multiple weather years to prop- erly account for such events. Keywords: Wind power; Low-wind-power events; Reanalysis data; Corresponding author Email addresses: ohlendorf mcc-berlin.net (Nils Ohlendorf), wschill diw.de (Wolf-Peter Schill) Preprint submitted to arXiv March 1, 2022arXiv:2003.04133v2 physics.soc-ph 3 May 2020 1. Introduction The Paris Agreement calls for an extensive decarbonization of the global economy. A major strategy for achieving this goal is a massive expansion of variable renewable energy sources, in particular solar photovoltaics (PV) and wind power (de Coninck et al., 2018). While power generation from solar PV largely follows diurnal and seasonal cycles with annually repeating patterns, wind power is subject to more irregular inter-annual as well as intra-annual variations which are relevant from a security of supply perspective. In countries with growing shares of wind power, the occurrence of low-wind-power (LWP) events thus receives increasing attention. This is particularly true in Germany. In the context of its energy transition, Germany is one of the global front-runners in wind power deployment. In 2018, a total capacity of 52.5 GW of onshore wind power was installed in Germany, generating 90.5 TWh of electricity. This corresponds to 15 of German gross electricity consumption (BMWi, 2019). Given the governments targets to ex- pand the share of renewables in electricity consumption to 65 by 2030 and at least 80 by 2050 (Bundesregierung, 2019), the dependence of the German energy system on wind power is set to increase strongly in the future. Concerns about LWP events have been discussed in German media (Wetzel, 2017, 2019) and in the German parliament (Deutscher Bundestag, 2019a), and LWP events are also mentioned in the government s energy transition reporting (Deutscher Bundestag, 2019b). In this context, the term Dunkel aute is increasingly used. It refers to a persistent situation with very low power generation from wind and solar PV, which would be especially challenging in the German winter sea- son where PV availability is low and electric load has its peak. Yet no clear de nition of this concept has been provided so far (Wissenschaftliche Dienste, 2019), and quantitative evidence on the frequency and duration of such events is missing. In Table 15 of Deutscher Bundestag (2019b), an independent expert commission generally assumes a no-wind-no-solar period of two weeks. Yet research on LWP events is sparse so far. In this paper, we contribute 2 to lling this gap, focusing on onshore wind power in Germany. We provide an in-depth analysis of the frequency, duration, and magnitude of LWP events, making use of reanalysis data for 40 full years (1980 to 2019) and power curves of recently installed wind turbines. In doing so, we propose two de nitions of LWP events and investigate three di erent thresholds of capacity factors (2 , 5 and 10 ). We also compare the spatial distributions of the most persistent LWP event and the mean electricity generation. Parts of our analysis explicitly focus on winter months: these are particularly relevant, as power generation from solar PV is relatively low during this season, while the German peak load also occurs in winter. In order to allow for the highest degree of transparency and reproducibility, we provide the source code of our analysis under a permissive open-source license (Ohlendorf, 2020). There are only few dedicated analyses on the frequency and duration of LWP events. Early contributions address reliability aspects of spatially dis- persed wind power in California (Kahn, 1979) or in the midwestern United States (Archer and Jacobson, 2007). Analyses explicitly focusing on LWP events only recently emerged. Yet these di er from our work, amongst other factors, with respect to geographical and temporal coverage, data sources used, and methodologies applied. In particular, previous low-wind analyses mostly draw on local measurement data and either evaluate wind speeds (Leahy and McK- eogh, 2013; Patlakas et al., 2017) or wind power (Handschy et al., 2017; Kruyt et al., 2017). Leahy and McKeogh (2013) and Patlakas et al. (2017) investigate low-wind events for Ireland and the North Sea area, respectively. Both studies rstly evaluate low-wind events that are constantly below a given wind speed threshold, and secondly determine annual minimum moving average wind speeds for given durations, using extreme value distributions. Kruyt et al. (2017) and Handschy et al. (2017) go one step further and calculate respective power gen- eration from wind speeds for Switzerland and the United States, using a power curve. While the ndings of these studies are necessarily idiosyncratic to the spe- ci c geographical applications, some common ndings emerge. First, low-wind events are less frequent and less persistent if more, and spatially more dispersed, 3 measurement stations are used. Second, there are generally less events in winter than in summer. The measurement-based analyses face challenges related to their data sources. In general, studies that draw on measured wind speeds are spatially biased, have low measurement
__label__energy	Multi-Agent Learning for Resilient Distributed Control Systems Yuhan Zhao, Craig Rieger, and Quanyan Zhu Abstract Resilience describes a system s ability to function under disturbances and threats. Many critical infrastructures, including smart grids and transportation networks, are large-scale complex systems consisting of many interdependent sub- systems. Decentralized architecture becomes a key resilience design paradigm for large-scale systems. In this book chapter, we present a multi-agent system (MAS) framework for distributed large-scale control systems and discuss the role of MAS learning in resiliency. This chapter introduces the creation of an artiﬁcial intelli- gence (AI) stack in the MAS to provide computational intelligence for subsystems to detect, respond, and recover. We discuss the application of learning methods at the cyber and physical layers of the system. The discussions focus on distributed learning algorithms for subsystems to respond to each other, and game-theoretic learning for them to respond to disturbances and adversarial behaviors. The book chapter presents a case study of distributed renewable energy systems to elaborate on the MAS architecture and its interface with the AI stack. 1 Introduction IndustrialControlSystems(ICSs)arecentraltothecontrolandcommandofcritical infrastructure systems, such as power grids, transportation networks, heavy indus- tries, and distribution systems. An ICS consists of interconnected subsystems of diﬀerent functions, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems for data collection and monitoring; ﬁeld controller systems for physical Yuhan Zhao New York University, Brooklyn, NY 11201, USA e-mail: yhzhao nyu.edu Craig Rieger Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho Falls, ID 83402, USA e-mail: name email.address Quanyan Zhu New York University, Brooklyn, NY 11201, USA e-mail: qz494 nyu.edu 1arXiv:2208.05060v1 eess.SY 9 Aug 2022 2 Y. Zhao, C. Rieger, Q. Zhu plant control. Based on the unit functionality, each subsystem contains Informa- tional Technology (IT) units (constituting IT systems) for information processing, such as task scheduling, and Operational Technology (OT) units (constituting OT systems)forreal-timetaskexecution.Thesubsystemsworkinadistributedbutinter- dependentfashiontoachievetheoverallfunctionalityoftheICSandsupportcritical infrastructure services. However, current ICS environments still contain many legacy systems. The or- ganic incorporation of diﬀerent control system vendors and models over the years exposes a large attack surface to the attacker, making ICSs more vulnerable to ma- licious attacks. With cyber attacks becoming more technologically advanced, many of the systems have become the foremost target of resourceful attacks 1, 2 . Cyber riskscanalsopropagateamongthesubsystemsduetoextensiveinterconnectionand interdependencies, which are not always known or planned for. Unexpected errors can happen in one subsystem when other subsystems are attacked. It is challeng- ing to secure ICS holistically at a system-wide level. In addition to the external attack threats, the internal faults can also propagate over the ICS network, causing cascading errors and exacerbating failures in the system 3, 4 . ThepastfewyearshavewitnessedmanycalamitousattacksonICSsrangingfrom the Stuxnet attack on nuclear power plants in 2010 5 to the ransomware attack on Automotive technology manufacturer, Denso, in 2022 6 . There is an urgent need tostrengthenthesecurityofICSs.MereITsolutionsaloneare,however,insuﬃcient to address the security challenges because they overlook the security of the OT systems. The OT systems control physical units such as sensors and actuators for taskexecution,andtheirperformanceisaﬀectedbythewell-beingofcybersystems aswellasthedisturbancesandinternalfaultsonphysicalunits.TheOTsecurityaims to not only mitigate the malicious attacks from the cyber domain but also stabilize the physical systems. Therefore, a holistic cyber-physical or joint IT-OT security solution is in need to address the ICS security challenges. ICSsecurityischallenging,notonlyduetothecross-layerandsystem-wideneeds but also because of the role of the attacks. Growingly sophisticated attacks make it harder or unfeasible to achieve perfect security, which aims to protect ICSs from any attacks and ensure system performance. Resilience becomes an eﬀective way to further mitigate the security risk. Resilience refers to the system s ability to maintains state awareness and an accepted level of operational normalcy in response to disturbances, including threats of an unexpected and malicious nature 7 . A resilient ICS can eﬀectively respond to an unknown attack to mitigate its impactandmaintainacceptablesystemperformance 8,9,10 .TheresilienceofICSs needs to be achieved in a distributed way since ICSs are large-scale and distributed systems that consist of diﬀerent subsystems. Each functional subsystem requires resilience to maintain its function under external attacks and internal disturbances, which consequently contributes to the resilience of the holistic ICS and the mission criticality. One plausible architecture to achieve it is through the concept of multi- agent resilience (MAR). MARbuildsuponthemulti-agentsystem(MAS)frameworkforlarge-scalecon- trol systems shown in Fig. 1, which describes ICSs at diﬀerent system scales. At Multi-Agent Learning for Resilient Distributed Control Systems 3 the system level, each functional subsystem is treated as an intelligent agent. They interactandcooperatewitheachothertoaccomplishasystem-widemission.Atthe subsystem level, the IT and OT systems in each subsystem act as intelligent agents to manage, control, and coordinate the tasks in the cyber and physical domains. It is important to note that MAR is not a mere replica of one resilient subsystem becauseoftheheterogeneityandinterdependencyinICSs 11 .First,subsystemsare diverseintheirfunctionalityandnetworkstructures,resultingindiﬀerentstrategies anddesignsforsubsystemstoachieveresilience.Second,theextensiveinterconnec- tions among subsystems in ICSs lead to complex interdependencies. A response of one subsystem to mitigate attack consequences may exacerbate the performance of another. Therefore, MAR needs a careful and holistic set of design methodologies 10 . It is challenging to achieve MAR in ICSs because subsystem models and in- terdependencies between subsystems are not always known or planned for. Dis- tributed learning-based mechanisms provide a possible and promising way to reach it. First, the distributed learning-based mechanism uses data analytics for informed decision-making, which is prominent when the exact model and interdependency are increasingly challenging to obtain with the growing of ICS scale and complex- ity. The data for analysis is readily supported and collected by SCADA systems. Second, the learning-based mechanism enables a continuous cognitive capability and creates an adaptive response to threats 12 . A subsystem can constantly up- dateitsdecision-makingmodeltoadapttoevolvingchangesfromattackersthrough learning. Third, the learning-based mechanism allows responding to unanticipated events.Thelearningenableseachsubsystemtodetectandrecognizenewanomalies and faults in time during the operation, which is critical for protecting the system from zero-day attacks. Finally, the learning-based mechanism allows sharing of in- telligenceamongorwithinsubsystemstoimprovetheholisticICSresilience.Instead ofsolelyfocusingonasinglesubsystemresilientdesign,thedistributedlearningalso enables the perception and adaption of one subsystem to others. With the exchange of local knowledge 13, 14, 15, 16 , the subsystems are able to handle the complex and unknown interdependencies and avoid the counter-eﬀect of resilient response interplay between subsystems. Inthischapter,weintroduceamulti-agentlearningframeworktoachieveresilient design for large-scale and distributed ICSs. Compared with traditional ICSs, an AI stack
__label__energy	Littletolose: thecaseforarobustEuropeangreenhydrogenstrategy KoenvanGreevenbroek 1,JohannesSchmidt2,MarianneZeyringer3,andAlexanderHorsch1 1Department of Computer Science, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, Postboks 6050 Langnes, 9037 Tromsø, Norway 2Institute for Sustainable Economic Development, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Feistmantelstraße 4, 1180 Vienna, Austria 3Department of Technology Systems, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 70, 2027 Kjeller, Norway 11thDecember2024 TheEUtargets10Mtofgreenhydrogenproductionby2030,buthasnotcommittedto targetsfor2040. Greenhydrogencompeteswithcarboncaptureandstorage,biomass andimportsinreachingemissionsreductions;earlierstudieshavedemonstratedthe greatuncertaintyinfuturecost-optimaldevelopmentofgreenhydrogen. Inspiteof this,weshowthatEuroperiskslittlebysettinggreenhydrogenproductiontargetsat around25Mtby2040. Employinganextensivescenarioanalysiscombinedwithnovel near-optimaltechniques,wefindthatthistargetresultsinsystemsthatarewithin10 ofcost-optimalinmostconsideredscenarios. Settingconcretetargetsisimportantin ordertoresolvesignificantuncertaintywhichhampersinvestments. Targetinggreen hydrogenreducesthedependenceoncarboncaptureandstorageandgreenfuelimports, makingforamorerobustEuropeanclimatestrategy. AsEuropeundergoesthetransitiontonet-zeroemissions by 2050, hydrogen is seen as a key technology enabling a shiftawayfromfossilfuels. TheEuropeanUnionhasseta target of 10 Mt agreen hydrogen production and imports each by 20301. Beyond 2030, however, targets for scaling upgreenhydrogenaremissingevenastheEUhasproposed a 90 emissions reduction by 20402and committed to net zeroemissionsby2050bylaw3. Thisischaracteristicofthe fundamentaluncertaintyaroundthefutureroleofgreenhy- drogenproductioninEurope. Inthisstudy,wepresentthe caseforcommittingtoEuropeangreenhydrogentargetsdes- pitethisuncertainty,whilekeepingtheriskofcostoverruns andmissingclimatetargetslow. Innet-zeroenergysystems,greenhydrogenisexpectedto serveprimarilyasafeedstockforsyntheticfuelproduction,as afuelinthetransportationsectorandasafeedstockandheat source in industry4 6. In these roles, green hydrogen com- peteswithfossilfuelscombinedwithcarboncaptureandstor- age(CCS)7,greenfuelimports8aswellasbiomass9,10. While estimatesofbiomassavailabilityby2050vary11,12,moststud- iesinaEuropeancontextuseconservativevaluesofaround 1200TWhsolidbiomassavailableperyear13,whichiscloseto currentvalues14. DevelopmentofCSSandgreenfuelimports, however,issubjecttomuchgreateruncertainty. Green fuel imports(here: carbon-neutral hydrogen, am- monia,methanol,syntheticgasandoilimports)havethepo- tentialforreducingtotalsystemcosts8,15,butglobalmarkets arecurrentlyvirtuallynon-existentandsupplyisexpectedto stayscarcefortheforeseeablefuture16. Moreover,acontin- uedrelianceonenergyimportscouldnegatetheresilienceto supplyshocksthatEuropeandecarbonisationpromises17,18. TheprospectsforfossilfuelsandCCStowards2050arecon- tentious. WhiletheEUhascommittedtoatargetof 50 Mt a Correspondingauthor, koen.v.greevenbroek uit.noofCO2sequestration(permanentgeologicalstorage)by2030 throughtheNetZeroIndustryAct19,thereiswidedisagree- ment among energy systems studies on how this number might scale up in the coming decades (Fig. 1). Apart from technologicalchallengesinscalingupCCS20,thispathway also relies on the continued, unsustainable use of deplet- ing fossil fuel reserves as well as a finite CO 2storage capa- city21. Thesefactors,amongothers22,conspiretoproduce widerangesofprojected(optimal)greenhydrogenproduc- tionlevelsinEuropeby2050(Table1). Net-zeroenergysystemsentirelywithoutgreenhydrogen production can be feasible and even cost-optimal in some scenarios4,10, but only with 1000 1400 Mtof CO2sequest- ration per year (Fig. 1). Especially synthetic fuel produc- tionfromgreenhydrogenisout-competedbyfossilfuelsun- der liberal assumptions on CO 2sequestration potential28. The European Environmental Agency, meanwhile, uses a 500 Mt a feasibility threshold in an impact assessment for the2040climatetarget29. Despitedoubtsaroundtheprofitabilityofgreenhydrogen towards2050,itmaynonethelessbeadvantageoustosetcon- cretetargetsforscalingupitsproduction. Ifgreenhydrogen does not take off, Europe s climate targets hinge solely on avastexpansionofCSScapacityand orgreenfuelimports. Thus, scalingupgreenhydrogenproductioncanmakethe transitiontonet-zeroemissionsmorerobustagainsttechno- logicaluncertaintyandexternalshocks. Moreover,clearlyar- ticulatedvisionsforafutureenergysystemaretobepreferred intransitions30,reducingfutureuncertaintyandrecognising path-dependenciesandlearning-by-doing24. Weshowthatwiderangesofgreenhydrogenproduction are possible when relaxing cost-optimality slightly. Across asystematic,large-scalescenarioexploration,wefindthat allowinga5 increaseintotalenergysystemcostsopensup 1arXiv:2412.07464v1 eess.SY 10 Dec 2024 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 Green hydrogen production in 2050 Mt a 0200400600800100012001400CO2 sequestration potential Mt a 10 5 2 opta) a) b)c) d)e)f) f) g)h) i)This study a) Blanco et al. (2018) b) Pickering et al. (2022) c) Seck et al. (2022) d) Neumann et al. (2023) e) Zeyen et al. (2023) f) Béres et al. (2024) g) Schreyer et al. (2024) h) Kountouris et al. (2024) i) Fleiter et al. (2024)Figure1: Rangesofgreenhydrogenproductionin2050foundinpreviousstudies,plottedagainsttheCO 2sequestrationlimitimposed byeachstudy. Blancoetal.andBéresetal.containdifferentscenarioswithdifferentCO 2sequestrationpotentialswhichareplotted here with seperate line segments. In the background, the ranges found in the present study; in particular, the overall minimum and maximumgreenhydrogenproductionlevelsfoundacrossallscenariosatthethreedifferentCO 2sequestrationpotentialsconsidered (275 Mt,550 Mtand1100 Mt). Theresultsarefurthersplitupbetweencost-optimal( opt )andnear-optimalat2 ,5 and10 slack levels. Whilewereportquantitiesofhydrogeninmillionsoftonnes(Mt),thiscanbeconvertedtoenergycontentusingthelowerheating valueof 33.3 kW kgH2,suchthat 1 Mt 33 .3 TWhforhydrogenand 1000 TWh 30 Mt . Ref. GreenH 2 prod. Mt a Model Comment Blancoetal.100 120 JRC-EU-TIMES 95 emissionsreduction. Nogreenhydrogenproductionin scenarioswithunrestrictedCO 2sequestration(amountingto 1400Mt a);90 120Mt ainscenarioswithnoCO 2sequestra- tion. Pickeringetal.2376 157 Sector-coupled version of euro-calliopeModel without CO 2sequestration and fossil fuels; range is over441differentnear-optimalsolutionsatmost10 more expensivethancost-optimalsolution. Secketal.538 78Soft-linkingofMIRET-EU IntegrateEuropeMostofthegreenhydrogenproductionat offgrid sites(i.e. used at the site of production), reducing distribution costs. Tightupperlimitof1400Mt aonCO 2sequestration. Neumannetal.669 80 PyPSA-Eur Tightupperlimitof200Mt aonCO 2sequestration. Zeyenetal.24114 119 PyPSA-Eur Tight upper limit of 200 Mt a on CO 2sequestration; endo- genouslymodelledtechnologicallearningforrenewablesand electrolysisleadstoanincreaseingreenhydrogenproduction. Inadditionalanalysisusinga2000Mt alimitonCO 2sequest- ration,greenhydrogenproductiondropsto 20Mt a. Béresetal.417 76Soft-linking of JRC-EU- TIMESandPLEXOSUpperlimitof300 1000Mt aonCO 2sequestrationdepending onthescenario;assumes50 oftotalhydrogendemandmust bemetbyimports. Schreyeretal.258 76 REMIND Upper limit of 270 Mt a on CO 2sequestration. Low green hydrogen production in this study is countered with zero- emissionsenergyimportsofupto1400TWh a. Kountourisetal.2630 51 Balmorel CO2sequestration not limited but peaks around 250 Mt a in2050;greenhydrogenimportsofuptoabout200TWh a. Hydrogendemandlargelydeterminedexogenously;littlecom- petitionbetweenhydrogenandfossilfuels. Fleiteretal.2720 78 Enertile CO2sequestrationlimitedtocementproductionprocessemis- sions;thelowergreenhydrogenproductionscenariosrelyon synthetic(green)fuelimportsofupto 1600 TWh . Table 1: Literature review of projections for European green hydrogen production by 2050, ordered by publication date. Results are compatiblewithanet-zeroemissionstargetunlessotherwiseisindicated. Onlystudiesincludingallmajorenergyproductionanddemand sectors(electricity,heat,transportation,industry)areincluded. Differencesinprojectionsareduetoavarietyoffactors;mostnotably differingassumptionsregardingCO 2sequestrationpotential,energyimportsand,toalesserextent,biomassavailability. Otherfactors includecostassumptionsandmodellingmethodology. 2 a difference of 38 Mt abetween minimum and maximum feasiblegreenhydrogenproductionin2050onaverage. Cru- cially,amoderatetargetsuchasatotalyearlyproductionof 25 Mtby 2040 is found to be feasible and near-optimal (no morethan5 10 moreexpensivethancost-optimal)across allconsideredscenarios. Thus,notonlywouldthesetargets securetheenergytransitionagainstavarietyofuncertainties and shocks: they are highly unlikely to lead to severe cost overruns. Europe has little to lose by committing to such targets. Greenhydrogendevelopmentistieddirectlytothefuture of fossil fuels as well as renewable electricity, representing either a competitor or an opportunity for different interest groups. Cost-optimalmodellingresultswitha centralplan- ning approachmaynotcapturesystemdesignsthatarepolit- icallymoreviablebutslightlymorecostly31,motivatingour focusonnear-optimalmethods,alsoknowsas Modelling to Generate Alternatives (MGA)32. Withsuchmethods,itisalso possibletogenerateoptionsthatarefeasibleandnear-optimal acrossanumberofscenarios33. Up to this moment, however, near-optimal methods have only been developed for single-horizon optimisa- tions12,23,32,34 36or multi-horizon optimisations with per- fect foresight over the planning horizon37. We therefore extend the state of the art by developing for the first time near-optimalmethodsinthecontextofmulti-horizonoptim- isations with myopic planning foresight. This allows us to studythetemporaldynamicsoftheenergytransitionwhile limitingcomputationalcomplexityandrunningtheunder- laying energy system model at high temporal and spatial resolution. Ourapplicationofnewmulti-horizonnear-optimaltech- niquesallowsusforthefirsttimetoinvestigaterobustpath- ways of European green hydrogen production; a first step on the way to a robust production target for 2040 and bey- ond. Neumannet.al.35andPickeringet.al.23employnear- optimalmethodstogeneratelargenumbersofsolutions,but do not consider green hydrogen production explicitly as a variableofinterest,onlyconsidera2050planninghorizon, andonlyconsiderCO 2sequestrationpotentialsof 200 Mt a and0 Mt a, respectively. Other research on European hy- drogenproductiontowards2050considersonlycost-optimal pathways,thusunderestimatingthetruerangesofviablepro- ductionlevels. Ourstudyalsorepresentsthemostsystematic andextensivescenarioanalysisonthequestionofEuropean greenhydrogentodate. Weobtainresultsoverallpossible combinationsofdifferentassumptionsacrosscategoriesrep- resenting CCS potential, biomass availability, presence of imports, electrolysis costs and weather year. Resulting in a total of 72 scenarios, we can show exactly which factors arethemostsignificantforthefutureofgreenhydrogenin Europe. Mappingoutgreenhydrogenproductionpath- ways Thesubsequentresultsarebasedonalargenumberofenergy systemmodeloptimisationscoveringtheperiodof2025 2050 in5-yearsteps;ourmodellingregionincludesmostoftheEU inadditiontotheUK,Switzerland,NorwayandmostBalkan countries. Amodel-widecaponCO 2emissionsisgradually tightenedinlinewithEUtargets: 55 ,90 and100 reduc- tionsby2030,2040and2050,respectively. Inordertofullycapture the potential roles played by hydrogen, the model (based on PyPSA-Eur38,39) includes representations of the electricity,gas,heating,transportationandindustrysectors, andisrunathighspatialandtemporalresolution(Methods). Green hydrogen production is minimised and maximised subjecttototalsystemcostincreaselimitsof 2 ,5 and10 ateachtimehorizonandforeachscenarioseparately(Fig.2). We repeat the optimisations for a total of 72 scenarios, representingallpossiblecombinationsofdifferentlevelsin fivesettings: 1. CCSpotential: (a),(b),(c). 2. Biomasspotential: (a),(b),(c). 3. Greenfuelimportpotential: (a),(b). 4. Electrolysercapitalcost: (a),(b). 5. Weatheryear: (a),(b). Thedetailsofthescenarioassumptionscanbefoundinthe Methodssection;foreachsettingourassumptionsrangefrom pessimistic(a)tooptimistic(borc). TheCCSpotentialset- tingconsistsofacombinationofsequestrationpotential,mar- ginalcostofsequestrationandcapitalcostofcarboncapture infrastructure. BiomasspotentialsarederivedfromtheENS- PRESSOdatabase13. Greenfuelimportsareeitherlimitedin volumetolessthandomesticgreenhydrogenproduction,or unlimited. Largedifferencesintheimportanceofgreen hydrogenfor2040climatetarget Different scenarios lead to a large variety of cost-optimal green hydrogen production pathways, reaching anywhere between0and 43 Mt aalreadyby2040(Fig.3). Sensitivities toindividualscenariosettingsareexploredinTable2. Allow- ingforjusta2 totalsystemcostincrease,therangewidens significantly,withdifferentscenariosleadingtoamaximum levelofgreenhydrogenproductionof5 59 Mt a. Ata10 totalsystemcostslack,theupperendoftherangeextendsto 100 Mt a insomescenarios. In most scenarios, green hydrogen production peaks alreadyin2040,largelydrivenbyastrongdemandforsyn- theticfuelsinthelandtransportationsector. Thissynthetic fueldemandisinturninducedbytheEU stargetofa90 emissionsreductionby2040,whileasignificantnumberof internalcombustionenginecarsarestillexpectedtobeop- erationalin2040(Methods). Thelandtransportationsector is still expected to dominate demand for oil in 2040, only ceding to aviation by 2050 (Supplementary Fig. S3). Sup- portingsyntheticfuelproduction,weseemassivebuild-out ofsolarandwindpower, withmedianinstalledsolarcapa-
__label__energy	Distributed ﬂexibility as a cost-effective alternative to grid reinforcement Jordan Holweger, Christophe Ballif, Nicolas Wyrsch Photovoltaics and thin ﬁlm electronics laboratory (PV-LAB) Ecole Polytechnique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL), Institute of Electrical and Micro Engineering (IEM) Neuch ˆatel, Switzerland fjordan.holweger, christophe.ballif, nicolas.wyrsch g epﬂ.ch Abstract The deployment of distributed photovoltaics (PV) in low-voltage networks may cause technical issues such as voltage rises, line ampacity violations, and transformer overloading for distribution system operators (DSOs). These problems may induce high grid reinforcement costs. In this work, we assume the DSO can control each prosumer s battery and PV system. Under such assumptions, we evaluate the cost of providing ﬂexibility and compare it with grid reinforcement costs. Our results highlight that using distributed ﬂexibility is more proﬁtable than reinforcing a low-voltage network until the PV generation covers 145 of the network annual energy demand. Index Terms PV , ﬂexibility, grid reinforcement cost, battery, optimal power-ﬂow I. I NTRODUCTION The fast deployment of distributed photovoltaics (PV) causes numerous challenges to distribution system operators (DSOs). The imbalance between local generation and load can create technical problems in low-voltage grids, such as line ampacity violations, overvoltage, and transformer over- loading 1 . A DSO must take countermeasures such as grid reinforcement (GR) 2 , 3 . Alternatively, future distributed PV systems might provide a signiﬁcant degree of ﬂexibility to reduce the need for GR. Indeed, battery energy storage systems (BESSs) 4 , inverter reactive power capability 5 , 6 , 7 , and active power curtailment (APC) are possible solutions to increase a network s ﬂexibility and mitigate GR costs 8 . Recent literature demonstrated that BESSs might increase a network s PV hosting capacity but are not competitive with GR 9 , 10 . This work compares the GR cost with the cost of harvesting distributed ﬂexibility, particularly BESS, APC, and inverter reactive power capabilities for various PV penetration levels. II. N OTATION AND BASIC FORMULAS This section aims to present the basic notation and symbols used in this paper. This work analyses a low-voltage grid with connected prosumers with a BESS, which are considered as static loads or generators injecting active and reactive powerPi;t;Qi;tat their grid connection points. The active power consists of the PV generation PPV i;t, the active power curtailment Pcur i;t, the BESS s exchange power Pbat i;t(positive when discharging), and the uncontrollable load Pload i;t. Fig. 1 illustrates the power balance of each prosumer. Fig. 1. System power balance. Sets: B;L;Ssets of buses, lines, and prosumers systems ( S B) respectively. Ltrset of transformer branches (pair of bus (ik)withi the high-voltage bus). Parameters: j p 1imaginary number. Pload i uncontrollable active power load at bus i. PPV iPV generation at bus i. Gik;Bikconductance susceptance on line (ik). x;x upper and lower limit for variable x. x ;x positive and negative part of x. qmax r inverter reactive power capabilities ratio (MV Ar MW). cimp,cexpimport and export tariff (consumer perspec- tive). L;r component lifetime and interest rate to calculate the annualisation factor R. Variables: Pbat i;t, battery active power (positive when discharging). Pcur i;t, PV active power curtailment uncontrollable active power load at bus i. QPV i;tPV inverter reactive power injection. Str itransformer apparent power. Vi;t,Iik;tvoltage magnitude at bus iand current in line (ik)and timet. ik;tvoltage angle difference between bus iandkat time t. 22nd Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2022Porto, Portugal June 27 July 1, 2022arXiv:2109.07305v1 eess.SY 15 Sep 2021 AC load ﬂow equations: Pi;t ( PPV i;t Pcur i;t Pbat i;t Pload i;ti2S 0 i2B S(1a) Qi;t ( QPV i;ti2S 0i2B S(1b) Pi;t Vi;tX k2BVk;t Gikcos ik;t Biksin ik;t (1c) Qi;t Vi;tX k2BVk;t Giksin ik;t Bikcos ik;t (1d) Iik;t (Gik jBik) (Vi;t Vk;t) (1e) Network operation constraints: V Vi;t V8i2B (2a) Iik;t I8(ik)2L (2b) Str i jVi;t Iik;tj Str i8(ik)2Ltr(2c) III. M ETHODOLOGY The methodology is based on a sequential approach. First, following the method described in 11 , the BESS s capacity Ebat capand its optimal control trajectory are optimised for each prosumer with a ﬁxed PV penetration (ﬁxed PV capacity for each system, PPV cap). The optimisation problem aims to min- imise the total cost of ownership of each BESS-PV system (3a) composed of the sum of the annualised BESS capital cost and the system operating cost (3b), subject to the power balance (1a). The operating costs (3b) are the cost of exchanging energy with the grid under an import and export tariff (from a prosumer s perspective) cimpandcexp, respectively. As the PV capacity is ﬁxed, it does not appear in the objective function. The term (3c) is a regularisation cost whose aim is to minimise battery usage. The annualisation factor Rdepends on the considered lifetime Land interest rate r. More details about the PV and BESS model can be found in 11 . Second, the load ﬂow problem (1a)-(1e) is solved at each point in time to calculate the network variable states, Vi;t,Iik;t, andStr i. Then, the annualised cost of GR (4a) is calculated as the sum of the cost of replacing lines (4b) because of line ampacity violation (4d), and the cost of replacing transformers due to an apparent power limit violation (4e). The annualisa- tion factorRgridis calculated as in (3d). The cost of replacing a line is proportional to the line length dland its speciﬁc cost per unit of length cline. The cost of replacing a transformer is simply the product of the transformer cost per unit of capacity ctrafoand the new maximum apparent power max tStr t. Third, distinct time domains t2 m; m 1:::M are constructed in which network constraints (2a)-(2c) are not satisﬁed. These contiguous time steps represent intervention periods in which the DSO must undertake actions to prevent violations of network constraints. To model these actions, we solve an optimal power-ﬂow problem for each period m with the goal of minimizing the PV curtailed energy (5a), which determines where and when to charge or discharge thebatteries, inject or absorb reactive power (within the inverter capability,qmax r constraints (5c)), and perform
__label__energy	arXiv:2403.03898v1 eess.SY 6 Mar 20241 Electrical Load Forecasting Model Using Hybrid LSTM Neural Networks with Online Correction Nan Lu, Quan Ouyang, Member, IEEE, Yang Li, Member, IEEE, and Changfu Zou, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Accurate electrical load forecasting is of great im- portance for the efﬁcient operation and control of modern po wer systems. In this work, a hybrid long short-term memory (LSTM )- based model with online correction is developed for day-ahe ad electrical load forecasting. Firstly, four types of featur es are extracted from the original electrical load dataset, inclu ding the historical time series, time index features, historical st atistical features, and similarity features. Then, a hybrid LSTM-bas ed electrical load forecasting model is designed, where an LST M neural network block and a fully-connected neural network b lock are integrated that can model both temporal features (histo rical time series) and non-temporal features (the rest features) . A gradient regularization-based ofﬂine training algorithm and an output layer parameter ﬁne-tuning-based online model corr ection method are developed to enhance the model s capabilities to defend against disturbance and adapt to the latest load data distribution, thus improving the forecasting accuracy. At last, extensive experiments are carried out to validate the effec tiveness of the proposed electrical load forecasting strategy with s uperior accuracy compared with commonly used forecasting models. Index Terms Electrical load forecasting, hybrid LSTM neural network, online model correction, similarity features. I. INTRODUCTION ACCURATE electrical load forecasting plays an indispens- able role in the optimal planning and efﬁcient operation of smart grids. It is a fundamental tool for improving the overall economy and stability of modern power systems while minimizing associated waste and costs. Even a 1 reduction in the average forecast error can translate into hundreds of thousands of dollars in saving 1 . With the rapidly growing market penetration of renewable energy and electric vehicl es, and their integration into the grid, the power system is faci ng increasing volatility and complexity, thus bringing heigh tened challenges to accurate electrical load forecasting. A systematic review of the electrical load forecasting stra te- gies was presented in 2 , where they are mainly classiﬁed into three categories: time series analysis, artiﬁcial neu ral network (ANN), and support vector regression (SVR). Com- monly used time series analysis models include the auto- regressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) 3 , quantil e This work was supported by Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions P ostdoctoral Fellowships under the Horizon Europe programme (Grant No. 1 01067291). (Corresponding authors: Quan Ouyang and Changfu Zou) Nan Lu is with the College of Automation Engineering, Nanjin g University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing 211100, China, an d also with the Faculty of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Univers ity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR 999077, China.(e-mail: nanlu nuaa.edu.cn) Quan Ouyang, Yang Li, and Changfu Zou are with the Depart- ment of Electrical Engineering, Chalmers University of Tec hnology, 41296 Gothenburg, Sweden. (e-mail: quano chalmers.se; ya ngli ieee.org; changfu.zou chalmers.se)regression averaging 4 , etc. Although these models have t he advantages of a simple structure and fast training speed, th ey cannot effectively reﬂect the volatility and nonlinearity in the electrical load time series, resulting in imprecise or unre liable forecasting outcomes. The ANN and SVR models utilize neural networks and classiﬁers, respectively, to capture the high-dimensiona l and complicated nonlinear correlation between the input featu res and output load, thus achieving higher forecasting accurac y 5 . A deep neural network-based short-term load forecasti ng model was proposed in 6 based on the historical load data sequence, where three convolutional layers and three pooli ng layers were employed for feature extraction. In 7 , an SVR- based short-term load forecasting algorithm was designed, where a two-step hybrid parameter optimization method was utilized to improve the forecasting accuracy. As an improvement, some non-temporal features, such as the time index and similarity features, were added to the inp ut for electrical load forecasting. For example, the Euclidea n norm with weighted factors was adopted in 8 as a feature to evaluate the similarity between the forecast day and a searc hed previous day. Then, a one-hour-ahead load forecasting meth od was developed by using the correction of similar day data. Based on the past data sequence and the binary variable that speciﬁes whether it is a working day, Jurado et al. pro- posed a hybrid methodology that combines feature selection based on entropies with soft computing and machine learning approaches 9 . These authors showed that the forecasting errors can be decreased by adding this binary feature to the inputs. A long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network was developed in 10 for short-term load forecast by taking into account the historical data sequence and its correspon ding time of day indices, day of week indices, and binary holiday marks as the inputs. To further enhance prediction accuracy , a hybrid prophet-LSTM model optimized by back-propagation was designed in 11 for short-term electricity load foreca sting. Despite the signiﬁcant progress represented by the above- mentioned approaches, none of them comprehensively incor- porates all the features of historical data sequence, time i ndex, and similarity. This may restrict the forecasting accuracy of the electrical load. Moreover, as the distribution of elect rical load data changes with time, the forecasting error of the aforementioned models, obtained through ofﬂine training w ith historical information, tends to progressively increase. Consid- ering these identiﬁed research gaps, we are therefore stron gly incentivized to develop a hybrid LSTM neural network model with the capability of online correction for accurate day-a head electrical load forecasting. 2 The main contributions of this paper are summarized as: 1) Four types of features are comprehensively incorporated for electrical load forecasting modeling, which include the historical time series, time index features, historica l statistical features, and similarity features. Compared with the methods that only consider part of features, more accurate forecasting results can be achieved. 2) A hybrid LSTM-based electrical load forecasting model is developed here, where an
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__energy	arXiv:2411.11245v2 physics.chem-ph 20 Dec 2024Extension of the Active-Orbital-Based and Adaptive CC( P;Q) Approaches to Excited Electronic States: Application to Potential Cuts o f Water Karthik Gururangana, Jun Shena, Piotr Piecucha,b, aDepartment of Chemistry, Michigan State University, East L ansing, Michigan 48824, USA bDepartment of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State Univer sity, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA Abstract We report the ﬁrst study using active-orbital-based and ada ptive CC( P;Q) approaches to describe excited electronic states. These CC( P;Q) methodologies are applied, alongside their completely re normalized (CR) coupled-cluster (CC) and equation-of-motion (EOM) CC counterparts, to reco ver the ground- and excited-state potential cuts of the water molecule along the O H bond-breaking coordinate obta ined in the parent CC EOMCC calculations with a full treatment of singles, doubles, and triples (CCSDT EOMCCSDT). We demonstrate that the active-orbital-based and adaptive CC( P;Q) approaches closely approximate the CCSDT EOMCCSDT data using signiﬁcantly reduced computational costs while improving the CR-CC and CR-EOMCC energetics in stretched regions of the O H bond- breaking potentials. Keywords: Coupled-Cluster Theory, Equation-of-Motion Coupled-Clu ster Formalism, Completely Renormalized Coupled-Cluster Approaches, Active-Space Coupled-Clust er Methods, Active-orbital-based CC( P;Q) Approaches, Adaptive CC( P;Q) Methodology, Ground- and Excited-State Potential Surfac es of Water 1. Introduction The development of accurate and computationally practical methods for describing excited electronic states and potential energy surfaces (PESs) of molecules is a vital com ponent of quantum chemistry. This task becomes es- pecially challenging when examining excited states domina ted by two- or other many-electron transitions and larger regions of excited-state PESs, which are relevant to spectr oscopic and photochemical applications. It is nowadays wel l established that the excited-state extensions of the coupl ed-cluster (CC) theory 1 3 belonging to the equation-of- motion (EOM) 4, 5 , linear-response (LR) 6 9 , and symmet ry-adapted-cluster conﬁguration interaction (CI) 10 hierarchies are capable of providing reliable and systemat ically improvable description of excited electronic state s using polynomial computational steps within a conceptuall y straightforward single-reference (SR) ansatz. In the EOMCC framework, which is a focus of the present study, the exact excited states of the N-electron sys- tem are deﬁned as Ψµ angbracketright Rµ Ψ0 angbracketright, where Ψ0 angbracketright eT Φ angbracketrightis the ground-state CC wave function, with Φ angbracketrightdesignating the reference determinant that serves as a Fermi vacuum, and T summationtextN n 1TnandRµ summationtextN n 0Rµ,n rµ,01 summationtextN n 1Rµ,n (µ 0) are the cluster and EOM excitation operators, with TnandRµ,nrepresenting their n-body components ( 1is the identity operator). The EOMCC approximations obtained by truncating TandRµat a given many-body rank provide a transparent route for computing increasingly acc urate and systematically improvable excited-state energe t- ics and properties, but the leading and most practical EOMCC approach with singles and doubles (EOMCCSD) 5 , obtained by truncating TandRµat their two-body components, cannot handle multireferenc e (MR) correlation e ﬀects characterizing excited states dominated by two or other man y-electron transitions and excited-state potentials outs ide the Franck Condon region, especially when chemical bonds a re signiﬁcantly stretched or broken 11 13 . In fact, EOMCCSD is not fully quantitative in describing singly exci ted states either 14 . In general, higher-level EOMCC Corresponding author Email address: piecuch chemistry.msu.edu (Piotr Piecuch) Preprint submitted to Chemical Physics Letters December 24 , 2024 methodologies that incorporate TnandRµ,ncomponents with n 2, such as the EOMCC approach with a full treat- ment of singles, doubles, and triples (EOMCCSDT) 11, 12, 15 , in which TandRµare truncated at T3andRµ,3, respectively, are necessary to obtain an accurate and more r obust description. Inspired by Refs. 13, 16 , in this work we focus on convergin g the ground- and excited-state PESs of the water molecule along the O H bond-breaking coordinate correspon ding to the H 2O H OH dissociation obtained with EOMCCSDT and its ground-state CCSDT counterpart 17, 18 . A s shown in this study, the CCSDT EOMCCSDT water potentials are nearly exact, closely matching the ful l CI data reported in Refs. 13, 16 , but the application of th e full CCSDT and EOMCCSDT methods, especially when larger mol ecules and basis sets are considered, is hindered by the expensive computational steps that scale as N8with system size N. To address this concern, a variety of approximate EOMCC and LRCC schemes aimed at reducing the pro hibitive computational costs of the EOMCCSDT and LRCCSDT calculations have been developed. Among them ar e methods that rely on perturbative arguments to correct the EOMCCSD or LRCCSD calculations for T3andRµ,3eﬀects in an iterative or noniterative fashion 19 22 , but these kinds of approaches, while accurate for excited st ates dominated by one-electron transitions, struggle when the more MR excited states dominated by two-electron transi tions are examined. The newer triples corrections to EOMCCSD 13, 14, 23 28 , such as the left-eigenstate comple tely renormalized (CR) EOMCC approach abbreviated as CR-EOMCC(2,3) 26, 27, 29 and its rigorously size-inten siveδ-CR-EOMCC(2,3) modiﬁcation 14, 28 that rely on the moment energy expansions 25 27, 29 34 , are more rob ust in this regard 13, 14, 35 , but they may still encounter diﬃculties when T3andRµ,3correlations become larger, nonperturbative, and strongl y coupled to their lower-rank T1,T2,Rµ,1, and Rµ,2counterparts 29, 36, 37 . This becomes evident when examin ing stretched regions of certain excited-state water potentials with CR-EOMCC(2 ,3) 13 (cf. Sec. 3.3). A robust solution to the above deﬁciencies of the perturbati ve corrections to EOMCCSD and their CR-EOMCC(2,3) and similar counterparts is o ﬀered by the CC( P;Q) framework 29, 36 40 , which generalizes the original CR- CC 26, 30, 31, 33, 34, 41 and CR-EOMCC 14, 25 28 approaches t o unconventional truncations in the TandRµop- erators that incorporate the leading contributions to the TnandRµ,ncomponents with n 2 into the iterative parts of the computations, correcting the resulting energies for the missing correlation e ﬀects of interest using moment expansions similar to those used in CR-CC EOMCC. In particular, the CC( P;Q) formalism provides a ﬂexible and powerful framework for
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	1 Energy and environmental impacts of air -to-air heat pumps in a mid- latitude city David Meyer1, (ORCID: 0000 -0002 -7071 -7547 ) Robert Schoetter2 (ORCID: 0000 -0002 -2284 -4592) Maarten van Reeuwijk1 (ORCID: 0000 -0003 -4840 -5050 ) 1Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London, London, UK 2CNRM, Université de Toulouse, Météo -France, CNRS, Toulouse, Franc e Correspondence to David Meye r (email: d.meyer imperial.ac.uk ) Abstrac t Heat pumps ( HPs) have emerged as a key technology for reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. This study evaluates the potential switch to air-to-air HPs (AAHPs) in Toulouse, France, where conventional space heating is split between electric and gas sources . In this context, we find that AAHPs reduce heating energy consumption by 57 to 76 , with electric heating energy consumption decreasing by 6 to 47 , resulting in virtually no local heating -related CO 2 emissions. We observe a slight reduction in near -surface air temperature of up to 0.5 C during cold spells , attributable to a reduction in sensible heat flux , which is unlikely to compromise AAHPs operational efficiency. While Toulouse s heating energy mix facilitates large energy savings, electric energy consumption may increase in cities where gas or other fossil fuel sources prevail . Furthermore, as AAHP s efficiency varies with internal and external conditions, their impact on the electrical grid is more complex than conventional heating systems . The results underscore the importance of matching heating system transitions with sustainable electricity generation to maximize environmental benefits. The study highlights the intricate balance between technological advancements in heating and their broa der environmental and policy implications, offering key insights for urban energy policy and sustainability efforts. 2 Introduction In 2021, residential space heating accounted for 17 of the final energy consumption in the European Union s group of 271 and 11 globally across the International Energy Agency s group of 61 countries, contributing to 8 of total carbon -dioxide (CO 2) emissions2. Heat pumps (HPs) represent a critical technological shift towards high -efficiency, electrically driven heating systems, offering a sustainable alternative to fossil -fuel-based systems3 5. While previous research has underscored the potential of HPs in reducing buildings energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions6,7, the ir effectiveness is contingent upon the system type , operational practices, and electricity generation sources7 9. Previous analyses have leveraged a range of statistical, empirical, and numerical models to assess HPs impacts on energy consumption and CO 2 emissions under various conditions6,10 15. Notably, ref.6 show that in 53 out of 59 regions, HPs are less carbon -intensive compared to fossil -fuel alternatives, even under current electricity generation carbon intensities. This underscores the potential for HPs for reducing emissions, particularl y in France, where the extensive use of nuclear power minimises their environmental impact . Conversely, ref.10 illustrate a counterintuitive scenario in the United States, where switching to electric HPs could increase both heating costs and CO 2 emissions due to the predominant use of fossil fuels in electricity generation . This h ighlight s that the environmental benefits of H Ps are heavily dependent on the local energy mix . Similarly, ref.11 provide empirical evidence from Arizona, challenging the assumption of universal energy savings from HP adoption. Their findings reveal no notable electricity savings during su mmer and an increased electricity demand in winter. Finally, ref.15 explore the retrofitting of a UK dwelling with air -to-water HPs (AWHPs) , noting a 12 reduction in CO 2 emission s but with a 10 increase in operational costs. Collectively, these studies underline the importance of considering regional energy sources and climate conditions in assessing HPs environmental and economic impacts. Physically, HPs move thermal energy from a cold location (e.g., outdoor air) to a warmer one16 (e.g., indoor air) . Depending on where the energy is sourced or released (e.g., in air, ground, or water) several HP types exist3. Air -to-air heat pumps (AAHPs; Supplementary Fig. 1) are the predominant type globally17,18, meriting focused investigation into their performance and environmental impact. In simulating their behaviour , two variables are of main interest : capacity ( 𝑄capacity ), i.e., the amount of thermal energy (𝑄heat) that an AAHP can provide at a given time of operation , and, work ( 𝑊), i.e., the amount of electric energy used to drive the system at a given time of operation. The ratio of thermal energy moved into the building to that of electric energy used to drive the compressor defines the coefficient of performance (COP, i.e., COP 𝑄heat 𝑊) a common metric to rate an AAHP s efficiency. Here, we show through an integrated modelling approach, combining heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) models with building energy models (BEMs), urban canopy models (UCMs), and numerical weather prediction (NWP) models (e.g. ref.19 22), the potential impact of AAHPs on energy consumption, urban climate dynamics, and CO 2 emissions in Toulouse, France. Similarly to previous meteorological studies investigating air conditioners effects23 29, and by assessing the COP in real -world scenarios, we contribute to the understanding of AAHP efficiency in diverse environmental settings offering insights into their transient behaviour under varying building and meteorological conditions . Through this detailed investigation, our research highlights the broader implications of AAHP deployment on electricity consumption and environmental sustainability, contribut ing comprehensive insights and offering a framewo rk for future research and policymaking aimed at sustainable urban heating solutions. 3 Results Building energy consumption Using the offline SURFEX -TEB-MinimalDX models (Methods), we examine the impact of transitioning from fossil -fuel and resistive heating -based systems to AAHP s on the annual heating and cooling energy consumption of Toulouse, France. This transition assessed over the building energy consumption (BEC; i.e., considering all heating sources such as gas, electric, wood, and oi l; Supplementary Fig. 2a) and electric e nergy consumption (EEC) only offers insights into the potential for energy savings and efficiency g ains. The baseline scenario, based on and evaluated against results reported by ref.30 (Supplementary Fig.
__label__energy	On Large Ground Station Antennas as Potential Radar Targets for Biomass Cornelis G. M. van t Klooster,(1)Arnold van Ardenne(2), (1)parttime Eindhoven University of Technology, Email: kvtklooster gmail.com, C.G.v.t.Klooster tue.nl (2)parttime Astron, Oude Hoogeveensedijk 4, 7991 PD Dwingeloo, NL, Email: Ardenne astron.nl Abstract Radio-telescopes or ground-station antennas can, if pointed, act as a radar target with high radar cross-section (RCS). Space-based Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data conﬁrmed it at5:3GHz for a modiﬁed ground-station antenna. Operational ground-station antennas cannot be modiﬁed. The latter antennas might operate at frequencies well above the radar band. The radar signal could be scattered with high RCS from such an antenna, with less inﬂuence due to a load (receiver). The antenna geometry should be precisely known to derive its RCS. BIOMASS SAR operates near 435 MHz (P-band). Results are given, also for BIOMASS antenna itself. Large antennas in an array as in Westerbork are of potential interest, located on an East-West line, nearly perpendicular to ascending and descending polar orbits. Related material is discussed. I. I NTRODUCTION A recent paper 1 discussed calibration aspects for BIOMASS. Its SAR will operate in a 6 MHz band near 435 MHz 2 . Radio-telescope antennas have been mentioned as radar target of opportunity with a requirement for antenna pointing but it has not been elaborated beyond one sentence in 1 . This paper intends to provide additional information and suggests subjects for further investigation. Ground station antennas have been mentioned 3 as potential target for the SAR of the European Remote sensing Satellite (ERS) though with an uncertainty for the RCS value. There was a ﬁrst mentioning of Westerbork radio telescope antennas (Fig. 1) in an internal memo in Estec Antenna Section in 1985. A potential additional one-way pattern measurement was mentioned for a part of ERS SAR elevation pattern, with different antennas in the East-West interferometer array. It has not been elaborated further at the time. A development of active transponders has been undertaken for ERS 4 . Dedicated antennas were needed with stringent side- lobe requirements derived at Estec to cope with direct and bi-static scattering effects nearby the transponder location. It led to a small, low side-lobe level antenna 5 developed by ERA in UK. A very good absolute accuracy resulted for the SAR of ERS following a calibration campaign. The SAR has been used for assessment of RCS of ground-station antennas in Russia, at the time permitted by the ERS mission manager. First results have been presented in the CEOS working group meetings in Moscow 7 and at Estec 8 . The type of target was expected to be used also for a Russian SAR on the Priroda platform on MIR station. Further investigations conﬁrmed RCS stability Fig. 1. Westerbork radio-telescope. (Copyright Astron 19 ). of a ground-station antenna observed with ERS. Interesting results were reported 6 but for a modiﬁed antenna, see Fig. 2. The derived RCS stability is shown, see Fig. 3 (from 6 ). A simple scattering structure is noticed in the focal area: just a small ﬂat square plate. Such antenna modiﬁcation is not allowed in an operating antenna. Such a plate assists to extend an angular domain for a high mono-static RCS value, but with limitations also. It just so happens that such a conﬁguration scenario compares with a focal plane scenario as present in a Westerbork antenna. The use of ground-station antennas as a potential target came back again during the start of initial investigations of a potential P-band SAR mission. Suggestions have been put forward in 14 , 15 . The argument is that many operating ground-station antennas are below cut-off at P-band fre- quency. The antennas can offer potentially a large mono-static RCS with their scattering properties in lower bands, which are less modiﬁed by receiver reﬂection properties. Moreover, such a target beneﬁts from antenna stability and pointing properties (designed for the shorter wavelength). SAR data have been collected at 5:3GHz to explore the subject again 14 , 15 but really P-band data are needed. Initial estimations have been derived using Physical Optics (PO) 15 . Results were also derived with the Method of Moment (MOM, 11 , 12 ) but based on limited geometrical information. Nowadays various tools, based on MOM can handle scattering structures, which are very large in terms of wavelength. Predictions can be madearXiv:2111.05316v1 physics.space-ph 9 Nov 2021 Fig. 2. Antenna with plate near Moscow, radar target used in 6 with ERS SAR. Fig. 3. RCS data for antenna Fig. 2 6 . . using more detailed structural conﬁguration aspects especially in the focal region. Accordingly a revisit is made here with a secondary objective to complement 1 . A. RCS aspects RCS is commonly deﬁned as in Eq. 1. lim r!14 r2 Es( r) 2 Ei( r) 2(1) with position vector r, the scattered ﬁeld Es( r)and the incident ﬁeld Ei( r). A plane wave is assumed as the incoming ﬁeld from a SAR satellite, properly normalised. Eq. 1 presents a relation between incoming and outgoing power ﬂux densities without phase information. The scattered ﬁeld forms together with the incident ﬁeld a total ﬁeld Etot(Eq. 2). The total ﬁeld is complex and with its polarisation state and can be predicted in principle. Etot( r) Es( r) Ei( r) (2) The scattered ﬁeld results from a surface current distribution induced on the scatterer by the incident plane wave ﬁeld.The latter current distribution is determined by solving an electrical ﬁeld integral equation (EFIE) derived on the basis of a boundary condition for the electric ﬁeld. A solution is derived with the Method of Moments (MOM) and a scattered ﬁeld can be derived subsequently. A physically large antenna or radio telescope is considered as a large structure. Precise conﬁguration properties differ from antenna to antenna. Details need to be known, especially in the focal region. Accordingly one has to derive models for analysis of each antenna consid- ered and antenna conﬁgurations can be quite different. The complex scattered ﬁeld with its polarisation state is available. It
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	Real-time equation-of-motion CC cumulant and CC Green s function simulations of photoemission spectra of water and water dimer Fernando D. Vila and John J. Rehr Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 98195, United States of America Himadri Pathak, Bo Peng, Ajay Panyala, Erdal Mutlu, Nicholas P. Bauman, and Karol Kowalskiy Physical and Computational Sciences Directorate, Paci c Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, Washington 99354, United States of America (Dated: May 31, 2022) Newly developed coupled-cluster (CC) methods enable simulations of ionization potentials and spectral functions of molecular systems in a wide range of energy scales ranging from core-binding to valence. This paper discusses results obtained with the real-time equation-of-motion CC cumulant approach (RT-EOM-CC), and CC Green s function (CCGF) approaches in applications to the water and water dimer molecules. We compare the ionization potentials obtained with these methods for the valence region with the results obtained with the CCSD(T) formulation as a di erence of energies forNandN 1 electron systems. All methods show good agreement with each other. They also agree well with experiment, with errors usually below 0.1 eV for the ionization potentials. We also analyze unique features of the spectral functions, associated with the position of satellite peaks, obtained with the RT-EOM-CC and CCGF methods employing single and double excitations, as a function of the monomer OH bond length and the proton transfer coordinate in the dimer. Finally, we analyze the impact of the basis set e ects on the quality of calculated ionization potentials and nd that the basis set e ects are less pronounced for the augmented-type sets. I. INTRODUCTION Coupled-cluster (CC) theory 1 7 has evolved into one of the most accurate formulations to capture complex correlation e ects de ning a broad class of quantum ef- fects that drive chemical transformations, usually identi- ed with bond-forming and bond-breaking processes. 7, 8 Over the last few decades, theoretical e orts closely fol- lowed by the development of sophisticated computational models that take advantage of the ever-growing compu- tational power of parallel architectures, enabled the es- tablishment of a hierarchy of approximations and novel formulations for closed open-shell molecules, strong cor- relation, and large-scale systems. Special attention has been paid to single-reference CC formulations that can adequately describe chemical reactions and topological events of the corresponding ground-state potential en- ergy surfaces, including barriers, avoided crossings, and multiple minima. This e ort includes an impressive ar- ray of formulations based on the inclusion of high-rank collective e ects contributing to the expansion of the ground-state wave function. This progress was made possible to achieve thanks to cornerstone implementa- tions of the now ubiquitous models such as CCSD, 5 CCSDT, 9 11 CCSDTQ 12, 13 and their perturbative counterparts, including CCSD T , 14, 15 CCSD(T), 16 CCSD(TQ) and CCSDT(Q) type approaches. 17, 18 For its simplicity, the CCSD(T) method has assumed a unique position in high-accuracy chemical simulations fdv uw.edu ykarol.kowalski pnnl.govof equilibrium properties and chemical reactions. How- ever, a signi cant e ort has been expended to alleviate serious issues associated with the perturbative nature of the (T) for molecular con gurations away from the equi- librium geometry. 19 29 Di erent design principles drive a large class of these developments in perturbative and non-perturbative formulations. Structural changes in molecular systems such as bond- breaking forming can be characterized by analyzing their potential energy surface (PES) or scrutinizing pro- cesses states in various energy regimes sensitive to the geometry changes induced by chemical transformations. Excited state extensions of CC formalism play an es- sential role in these studies either through equation- of-motion CC methodologies (EOMCC) 30 32 or CC linear response theory (LR-CC), 33, 34 which are usu- ally formulated in frequency space. These methods have been widely applied in studies of excitation en- ergies, excited-state PESs, excited-state non-adiabatic dynamics, frequency-dependent optical properties, and, more recently, multi-component polaritonic systems. 35 Green s function extensions of the CC formalism (CCGF) 36 47 can also capture excited-state correlation ef- fects needed to describe quasiparticles (QP) and satellite peaks observed in X-ray photoemission spectra (XPS). It is worth mentioning that the development of the CC methods for the description of satellite peaks was paral- leled by enabling vertex corrected GW approaches 48 and adaptive sampling con guration interaction (ASCI) algorithms 49 capable of attaining high accuracy in de- scribing multi-con gurational electronic states for rela- tively little computational cost. Time-dependent CC formulations, which provide an al- ternative way of describing excited-state processes, havearXiv:2205.14179v1 physics.chem-ph 27 May 2022 2 attracted signi cant attention in the last decade. 50 56 In this context, we have recently developed a real-time equation-of-motion CC (RT-EOM-CC) method 57 60 to compute the one-electron GF based on a CCSD cumu- lant approach, which provides several advantages com- pared to other excited-state formulations. For example, the approach leads to an explicit exponential cumulant representation of the Green s function 61 and, at the same time, allows one to formulate a non-perturbative expression for the cumulant in terms of the solutions to a set of coupled, rst-order nonlinear di erential equations for the CC amplitudes. Additionally, the RT-EOM-CC formulation provides a theoretical platform for including nonlinear corrections to the traditional cumulant approx- imations, which are usually linear in the self-energy. In this paper, we compare the performance of the CCGF and RT-EOM-CC formulations when applied to core and valence binding energies of the water and wa- ter dimer molecules. In particular, we focus our analysis on identifying unique features of spectral functions, i.e., the location of quasiparticle and satellite peaks (for core and valence regions) as functions of geometry changes in bond-breaking processes. In this regard, we focus on the O-H stretch in H 2O and the bridging proton transfer pro- cess in (H 2O)2. We demonstrate that the impact of the geometry changes is especially strong for the satellite re- gion of the core spectral function. We also investigate the e ect of basis set e ects on the accuracies of ionization potentials obtained with the
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	1 Virtual Energy Storage Sharing and Capacity Allocation Dongwei Zhao, Student Member, IEEE, Hao Wang, Member, IEEE, Jianwei Huang, Fellow, IEEE, and Xiaojun Lin, Fellow, IEEE Abstract Energy storage can play an important role in energy management of end users. To promote an efﬁcient utilization of energy storage, we develop a novel business model to enable virtual storage sharing among a group of users. Speciﬁcally, a storage aggregator invests and operates the central physical storage unit, by virtualizing it into separable virtual capacities and selling to users. Each user purchases the virtual capacity, and utilize it to reduce the energy cost. We formulate the interaction between the aggregator and users as a two-stage optimization problem. In Stage 1, over the investment horizon, the aggregator determines the investment and pricing decisions. In Stage 2, in each operational horizon, each user decides the virtual capacity to purchase together with the operation of the virtual storage. We characterize a stepwise form of the optimal solution of Stage-2 Problem and a piecewise linear structure of the optimal proﬁt of Stage-1 Problem, both with respect to the virtual capacity price. Based on the solution structure, we design an algorithm to attain the optimal solution of the two-stage problem. In our simulation results, the proposed storage virtualization model can reduce the physical energy storage investment of the aggregator by 54.3 and reduce the users total costs by 34.7 , compared to the case where users acquire their own physical storage. Index Terms Energy storage, storage virtualization, business model, two-stage optimization I. I NTRODUCTION A. Background and motivation Energy storage is becoming a crucial element to ensure the stable and efﬁcient operation of the new-generation of power systems. The beneﬁts of the energy storage at the grid side have been well-recognized (e.g., for generation backup, transmission support, voltage control, and frequency regulation) 2 . Recently, there has also been an increasing interest in leveraging energy storage for end users (e.g., by harvesting distributed generations, and cutting electrical bill) 2 . However, deploying energy storage at the end-user side also faces challenges. On one hand, the current commercial storage products for end users often have high price tags.1 Further, since a storage product lasts for years, it is challenging This work is supported by the Presidential Fund from the Chinese Uni- versity of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China, and in part by the NSF awards: ECCS-1509536. Part of the results have appeared in IEEE ICC 2017 1 Dongwei Zhao is with the Department of Information Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China (e-mail: zd015 ie.cuhk.edu.hk). Hao Wang is with the Department of Civil and En- vironmental Engineering and the Stanford Sustainable Systems Lab, Stanford University, CA 94305 USA (e-mail: hwang16 uw.edu). Jianwei Huang is with the School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China and the Department of Information Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China (e-mail: jian- weihuang cuhk.edu.cn). Xiaojun Lin is with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA (e-mail: linx ecn.purdue.edu). 1A Tesla Powerwall storage with a capacity of 13.5 kWh costs 6200 3 .for a user to decide the storage size due to the uncertainty of future energy demand. In fact, the Tesla Powerwall only provides one or two choices of storage size for users. Both of these factors can discourage users from purchasing such storage products and enjoying the beneﬁts. On the other hand, if many users invest in energy storage, it is possible for them to cooperate and share the beneﬁts of storage due to complementary charge and discharge needs. The above considerations motivate us to study the following problem in the paper: what would be a good business model that promotes users more efﬁcient use of energy storage? In our work, we develop a novel business model to virtualize and allocate central energy storage resources to end users through a pricing mechanism. This is analogous to the practice of cloud service providers, who set prices for virtualized computing resources shared by end users 4 . In the power system, we can also envision that a storage aggregator invests in a central physical storage unit and then virtualizes it into separable virtual storage capacities that are sold to end users at a suitable price. Users purchase the virtual storage to reduce the energy cost. One key advantage of our storage virtualization framework is the ability to leverage users complementary charge and discharge proﬁles. Note that the aggregator only cares about the net power ﬂowing in and out the storage. As some users may choose to charge while others choose to discharge in the same time slot, some requests will cancel out at the aggregated level. This suggests that even if all the users are fully utilizing their virtual storage capacity, it is possible to support users needs by using a smaller central storage comparing with the total virtual storage capacities sold to users. Such comple- mentary charge and discharge proﬁles can arise in practice due to the diverse load and renewable generation proﬁles of end users. Speciﬁcally, as the most promising sources of clean and sustainable energy, solar and wind energy have both been increasingly adopted by households, commercial buildings, and residential communities 5 6 . Studies in 7 9 showed that solar and wind energy exhibit diverse and locational-dependent generation proﬁles. Similarly, end users load proﬁles can also be signiﬁcantly diverse even in a localized region 10 .2 Another key advantage of storage virtualization is that a user can ﬂexibly change the amount of virtual capacity to purchase over time based on his varying demand. Such ﬂexibility is difﬁcult to realize if the user owns physical storage by himself, 2We show the diversity of users load proﬁles in the online Appendix O of the technical report 11 based on the data from 10 .arXiv:1907.02005v5 eess.SY 15 Dec 2021 2 and encourages the users to take advantage of the energy storage. The above key advantages
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Life cycle economic viability analysis of battery storage in electricity market Yinguo Yanga, Yiling Yeb, Zhuoxiao Chengb, Guangchun Ruanb, Qiuyu Lua, Xuan Wangband Haiwang Zhongb aGuangdong Power Grid Corp, Guangdong, China bDepartment of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China ARTICLE INFO Keywords : energy storage battery degradation economic viability cost-benefit analysis internal rate of returnABSTRACT Battery storage is essential to enhance the flexibility and reliability of electric power systems by providing auxiliary services and load shifting. Storage owners typically gains incentives from quick responses to auxiliary service prices, but frequent charging and discharging also reduce its lifetime. Therefore, this paper embeds the battery degradation cost into the operation simulation to avoid overestimated profits caused by an aggressive bidding strategy. Based on an operation simulation model, this paper conducts the economic viability analysis of whole life cycle using the internal rate of return(IRR). A clustering method and a typical day method are developed to reduce the huge computational burdens in the life-cycle simulation of battery storage. Our models and algorithms are validated by the case study of two mainstream technology routes currently: lithium nickel cobalt manganese oxide (NCM) batteries and lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries. Then a sensitivity analysisispresentedtoidentifythecriticalfactorsthatboostbatterystorageinthefuture.Weevaluate the IRR results of different types of battery storage to provide guidance for investment portfolio. Nomenclature Δ𝑡 Time unit. 𝐸𝑟 The rated energy of battery storage (MWh). 𝑃𝑟 The rated power of battery storage (MW). bat Used as a subscript to indicate battery pur- chasing cost. CaplossThe battery capacity loss. Cap( ) 𝑡The capacity of battery storage deployed in auxiliary service market and energy mar- ket(MW). Cch Battery charging rate. Cdch Battery discharging rate. DoD Depth of discharge, which is the percentage of the battery that has been discharged rela- tive to the overall capacity of the battery. d Thespecificvalueofthedepthofdischarge. equ Used as a subscript to indicate equipment purchasing cost. et The state of charge at hour t, i.e. the enegy held in the battery storage at hour t. FEC Full equivalent cycles, which is the average ofbatterychargeanddischargecyclesforthe given period of time. ORCID(s):fix Usedasasuperscripttodenotethefixedpart of income or cost. IRR Tnternal rate of return, which is a metric used in financial analysis to estimate the profitability of potential investments. LCOS The levelized cost of storage. LFP Used as a subscript to indicate lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries. LMP LocationalMarginalPricing,whichisaway forwholesaleelectricenergypricestoreflect thevalueofelectricenergyatdifferentloca- tions. loss Usedasasuperscripttodenotebatterydegra- dation. mkt Used as a subscript to indicate benefits of batterystoragefromparticipatingintheelec- tricity market. NCM Usedasasubscripttoindicatelithiumnickel cobalt manganese oxide (NCM) batteries. op Usedasasuperscripttodenoteoperationand maintenance cost of battery storage. perf Used as a superscript to denote frequency regulation performance. Price( ) 𝑡Themarketpriceofauxiliaryservicemarket and energy market( MWh or MW). ProbresTheprobabilityofspinningreserve sdeploy- ment. Page 1 of 17arXiv:2305.15079v2 eess.SY 28 May 2023 rcy Used as a subscript to indicate battery recy- cling revenue. RmileageFrequency regulation ratio, which is the mileage of RegD (dynamic) divided by the mileage of RegA (traditional). ScoreperfScore of frequency regulation performance assessment. SoC State of Charge, which is a measurement of the amount of energy available in a battery at a specific point in time expressed as a percentage. SOH State of health, which describes the overall health and remaining capacity of a battery. sta Usedasasubscripttoindicatepowerstation design and construction cost. T Temparature of the battery. var Used as a superscript to denote the variable part of income or cost. 𝑖 Used as a subscript to represent dates. 𝑇 Usedasasubscripttorepresenttheincomes or costs by the end of year 𝑇. 𝑡 Used as a subscript to represent hours or year. 𝐶 The set of battery charging and discharging half cycle. 𝑐𝑎𝑝 Used as a superscript to denote frequency regulation capacity. 𝑐ℎ Usedasasuperscripttodenotebatterycharg- ing. 𝑑𝑐ℎ Used as a superscript to denote battery dis- charging. 𝑒 Used as a superscript to denote the energy market. 𝑒regThe average hourly charge or discharge en- ergyperMWfrequencyregulationcapacity, MWh. 𝐸max min The upper lower limit of the energy held in battery storage (MWh). 𝑘 Used as a subscript to indicate half cycle of battery charging and discharging. 𝑘fix Theempiricalunitvaluesofthefixedpartof the operation and maintenance cost. 𝑘var Theempiricalunitvaluesofthevariablepart of the operation and maintenance cost.𝑀 Set of typical days. 𝑁𝑑 The maximum number of cycles before the battery reaches the end of its life when the depth of discharge is d. 𝑟self The battery self-discharge rate. 𝑟𝑒𝑔 Usedasasuperscripttodenotethefrequency regulation ancillary service market. 𝑟𝑒𝑠 Used as a superscript to denote the spinning reserve ancillary service market. Δ𝑒𝑡 The amount of energy change in hour 𝑡. Cost The cost for different services that battery storage provides in electricity market( ). Income The payment for different services that bat- terystorageprovidesinelectricitymarket( ). 𝑚𝑆𝑂𝐶 Mean State of Charge. 1. Introduction Energy balance of modern power systems becomes in- creasinglychallengingwhenahighpenetrationofrenewable energy is required to fulfill the ambitious goal of carbon neutrality 1 . Cost effective energy storage such as battery storageisurgentlyneededtoprovideflexibilityresourcesto accommodate the intermittent renewable energy 2 . Batterystorageishighlyvaluableintheancillaryservice market and the energy market. In the ancillary market, battery storage is favored for its rapid response, which is widely applied in ancillary services including frequency regulation and spinning reserve. For frequency regulation, since significant frequency fluctuations may threaten the stabilityofthepowergrid,storageownersareurgedtoadjust the electricity output according to the frequency regulation signal to compensate for the imbalance between supply and demand in order to keep the frequency within a safe range. RegA is the traditional regulation signal commonly usedinfrequencyregulationmarket,whichisobtainedfrom the regional control error after passing through a low-pass filter. However, RegA(traditional) with a sampling time of 15 minutes ignores the rapid response potentials of battery storage when applied for frequency regulation. Therefore, a dynamicregulationsignalRegDsentevery2secondswillbe amorereasonablechoicewhichrewardstheabilityofquick response 3 . A high-pass filter instead of the low-pass one is used to obtain RegD(dynamic). Since the output power of the battery storage fluctuates according to the regulation signal, the concept of regulation mileage is introduced to measurethemovementofbatterystorageoutputpower.The performance of battery storage is scored according to its accuracy of response to the regulation signal. Reference 4 concluded that grid-scale batteries can significantly lower overallfrequencyregulationcoststhroughanalysisbasedon Australian electricity markets. Page 2 of 17 For spinning reserve, storage owners are required to respond to the instructions of the
__label__energy	Thermal Fracturing of Geothermal Wells and the E ects of Borehole Orientation Kjetil M. D. Halsa, Inga Berreb aChristian Michelsen Research, P .O. Box 6031, NO-5892 Bergen, Norway. bDepartment of Mathematics, University of Bergen, P .O. Box 7800, NO-5020 Bergen, Norway. Abstract An enhanced geothermal system (EGS) expands the potential of geothermal energy by enabling the exploita- tion of regions that lack conventional hydrothermal resources. The EGS subsurface system is created by engineering enhanced ﬂow paths between injection and production wells. Hydraulic stimulation of existing fracture networks has been successfully achieved for unconventional geothermal resources. More recently proposed concepts increase the use of drilled wellbores in hard rock to connect the injection and production wells. The present work investigates the long-term thermal e ects of deviated geothermal wellbores and stud- ies how the cooling of the borehole wall results in thermally induced tensile fractures. The results show that induced fractures are created by a combination of in situ and thermal stresses, and that the extent to which thermally induced tensile wall fractures are created largely depends on how the wellbores are oriented with respect to the pre-existing stresses of the reservoir. If the system is not optimized with respect to in situ stresses, the risk of wellbore instability becomes severe within less than a year of production. In contrast, if the orientation of the wellbores is optimized, thermally induced instabilities can be completely excluded as potential risks for the operational lifetime of the system. Furthermore, our results show that the thermal failure process strongly depends on the temperature of the injected water but is only weakly a ected by the injection rate. Keywords: Enhanced geothermal system, thermal fracturing, numerical modeling 1. Introduction Enhanced geothermal systems (EGSs) have emerged as a promising new type of geothermal power technology. An EGS uses hydraulic fracturing to create a fracture network in low-permeability rock layers to enhance the connectivity between typically deviated injection and production wells (Ab e et al., 1999). Still in the development stage, EGS technology has been criticized because of its po- tential to cause the initiation of larger seismic events (Majer et al., 2007). Recently, two alternative EGS concepts have been presented (Holmberg et al., 2012; Zhang et al., 2012) that increase the use Email addresses: kjetil.hals cmr.no (Kjetil M. D. Hals ), inga.berre math.uib.no (Inga Berre )of deviated wellbores to ensure connection between the production and injection wells (Fig. 1). One approach avoids the use of hydraulic stimulation, thereby reducing the risk of induced seismicity, by interconnecting the production and injection wells via drilled wellbores (Holmberg et al., 2012). The other approach uses drilled boreholes to improve the connection between the wellbores and the existing or stimulated fracture networks (Zhang et al., 2012). The present study refers to these new concepts as wellbore-based EGSs (WEGSs). The operational lifetimes of both EGSs and WEGSs largely depend on long-term e ects, such as mineral scaling, cor- rosion, and fracturing resulting from thermal stress, which could alter system permeability. The present article focuses on how long-term thermal e ects can Preprint submitted to Geothermics August 27, 2021 arXiv:1212.2763v1 physics.geo-ph 12 Dec 2012 result in borehole instabilities due to fracturing. 2000 m zθ 5000 m T 160 CT 4 C Tinj zbz 5000z 0 Figure 1: Illustration of a WEGS concept based on connected wellbores. The injection and production wells are intercon- nected by drilled wellbores (heat exchangers) that are tilted by an angle of with respect to the z axis. The length of each heat exchanger is 2000 m. zbrepresents the z-direction in the borehole coordinate system, while zis the vertical direction in the geographic coordinate system. The maximum depth of the wells is 5000 m below the surface. The temperature at 5000 m is assumed to be 160 C, while the water enters the heat ex- changers with a temperature of Tinj. Stress is induced in a reservoir that is exposed to compression or tension. The sources of inter- nal stress can be forces that are created due to a change of the reservoirs temperature or, in the case of a porous medium, a change in ﬂuid pressure. Large pre-existing (in situ) stresses are also typi- cally present in the reservoir due to tectonic forces and the overburden pressure (Zoback, 2007). Tensile or compressive rock failure is observed if the stress exceeds the rock strength (Zoback, 2007). Model- ing this fracturing is complicated, because the pro- cess depends on several coupled mechanisms that act on di erent length and time scales (Hansen, 2005; Hals and Berre, 2012). Fracturing has been stud- ied extensively over the last few decades with re- gard to the stabilities of deviated boreholes (Perkinsand Gonzalez, 1984; Pe ˇska and Zoback, 1995). In the petroleum industry, one of the major operational concerns related to drilled wellbores has been the prevention of borehole wall failure (Cooper, 1994). This type of failure is initiated by pressure and tem- perature gradients that are created around wellbores during drilling (Perkins and Gonzalez, 1984). Sev- eral previously published studies have investigated the stability of inclined boreholes. In particular, pressure-induced failures have been the focus of oil- well studies. In addition to numerical and experi- mental studies (Daneshy, 1973; Yew and Li, 1988; Baumg artner et al., 1989; Rawlings et al., 1993), the problem of borehole wall failure has been studied an- alytically via linear elastic models (Bradley, 1979; Aadnoy, 1987). Pe ˇska and Zoback (1995) presented a thorough investigation of borehole stabilities based on arbitrary borehole orientations in a wide variety of in situ stress states. They employed analytic expres- sions that describe the principal e ective stresses at the wellbore wall of a cylindrical well while consid- ering ﬂuid pressure variations (Hiramatsu and Oka, 1968; Fairhurst, 1968). Similar analytic expressions have been used in studies of thermally induced fail- ures (Myklestad, 1942; Perkins and Gonzalez, 1984; Zoback, 2007). The e ects of thermal fracturing have also been of concern in carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology. Recent studies have in- dicated that
__label__energy	IRON AS A SUSTAINABLE CHEMICAL CARRIER OF RENEWABLE ENERGY: ANALYSIS OF OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES FOR RETROFITTING COAL-FIRED POWER PLANTS PAULO DEBIAGI1; , RODOLFO CAVALIERE DA ROCHA1, ARNE SCHOLTISSEK1, JOHANNES JANICKA2, CHRISTIAN HASSE1 1Technical University of Darmstadt, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Simulation of reactive Thermo-Fluid Systems, Otto-Berndt-Str. 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany 2Technical University of Darmstadt, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Energy and Power Plant Technology, Otto-Berndt-Stra e 3, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany Abstract. As a result of the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26), several countries committed to phasing down coal electricity as soon as possible, deactivating hundreds of power plants in the near future. CO 2-free electricity can be generated in these plants by retro tting them for iron combustion. Iron oxides produced during the process can be collected and reduced back to metallic iron using H 2, in a circular process where it becomes an energy carrier. Using clean energy in the recycling process enables storage and distribution of excess generated in periods of abundance. This concept uses and scales up existing dry metal cycle technologies, which are the focus of extensive research worldwide. Retro tting is evaluated here to determine feasibility of adding these material requirements to markets, in the context of current plans for decarbonization of steel industry, and policies on hydrogen and renewable electricity. Results indicate that not only for a single power plant, but also on larger scales, the retro tting plan is viable, promoting and supporting advancements in sustainable electricity, steel industry and hydrogen production, con- verging necessary technological and construction e orts. The maturation and rst commercial-scale application of iron combustion technology by 2030, together with developing necessary reduction infrastructure over the next decades, would pave the way for large-scale retro tting and support the phasing out of coal in many regions. The proposed plan represents a feasible solution that takes advantage of existing assets, creates a long-lasting legacy for the industry and establishes circular energy economies that increase local energy security. Keywords: Iron Combustion; Energy Carrier; Retro tting; Green Energy; Hydrogen; Sustain- ability; Carbon-free Combustion E-mail address :debiagi stfs.tu-darmstadt.de . 1arXiv:2205.11944v1 physics.soc-ph 24 May 2022 1.Introduction In the Paris Agreement, countries committed to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), limiting global warming, preferably to 1.5 C. Investigations by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) forecast that the average global temperature would reach 1.4 4.4 C above pre-industrial times by 2100 1 . During the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26), the parties agreed to phase down unabated coal usage 2 , which was the source of about 30 of total global CO2emissions in 2020 3, 4 . Coal combustion is also the source of pollutants such as heavy metals, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides (NO x) 5 and sulfur oxides (SOx) 6 . The global electricity sector relied on coal for 35.1 (9.4 PWh) of the output in 2020 4 , a decrease compared with the historical 2018 peak (10.1 PWh), partly because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Percentages vary locally, at 60.75 in China 7 , 23.66 in Germany and 13.22 in EU-27 8 . Currently (2021), 2445 coal power stations are operating around the world, totalling 2.07 TW of capacity 9 . Several European countries have established plans to phase out coal by 2030, as reported in Fig. 1, clearly showing that the treansition is easier for all these countries, which require less than 15 of coal in their electricity mix. Germany previously announced plans to phase out coal by 2038 10 , and the recently formed government proposes bringing this forward to 2030 11 . Poland is a special case in the EU, as it still relies strongly on coal (69.8 ) 8 , making this transition very challenging. Further resistance to phasing coal out comes from India and China, which are large consumers of electricity in general, and are particularly reliant on coal 7 . 0153045607590Relative share of coal in the electricitymix China (4631.0)Czech Republic (32.1)Bulgaria (13.5)Poland (109.9)Slovenia (4.4)Germany (134.2)USA (774.0)Romania (9.4)Greece (7.4)Denmark (4.2)Hungary (3.6)Croatia (1.2)Netherlands (8.9)Slovakia (2.0) Italy (15.0)Finland (3.4)Spain (6.3)Ireland (0.7) India (947.0)UK (5.3)France (4.3) Coal phase-out plans:Phased-out By 2030After 2030W o announced plansAbsolute share TWh Fig. 1. Share of coal in electricity mix and plans for phasing out coal in Europe. Left: Current plans for phasing out coal in selected European countries. Right: Absolute TWh and relative share of coal in the electricity mix of selected European countries (2020) 7, 8 , clearly indicating that countries that are less reliant on coal are committing to phase out coal sooner. The share in China, India and the USA is also shown. 10, 12 . Compared to other fossil fuels, in 2020 coal is still the largest source of global energy-related CO2emissions (44.0 ), followed by oil and its derivates (33.7 ), and natural gas (21.6 ). Many countries are investing in power generation from natural gas to support the phasing out of coal, as both pollutants and CO2emissions are signi cantly lower. However, the current crisis in Ukraine 2 is expected to cause rapid policy changes worldwide, especially in Europe, where several sectors are pressuring policy-makers to reduce and eventually cease energy imports from Russia. Sustainable processes for converting renewable energy sources need to be developed 13 and this will depend on multiple solutions in the future, including e-fuels 14, 15 , biofuels 16, 17 and carbon capture 18, 19 . Renewable energy sources (e.g., wind, sun, geothermal, biomass) are generally proposed as substitutes for fossil fuels for electricity generation. In recent years, governments worldwide have been implementing policies to enable a fast transition of the electricity mix, scaling up the capacity. The new German coalition presented plans to ramp up the clean energy output from 251 TWh in 2020 20 to as much as 600 TWh by 2030 (80 of the power mix), later increasing it to 100 of the total output by 2045, when the country is expected to become carbon neutral 11 . Once deactivated, existing infrastructure for fossil fuels can remain as a
__label__energy	arXiv:2003.06298v1 eess.SY 13 Mar 2020Modelling of Variable Speed Hydropower for Grid Integration Studies T.I. Reigstad K. Uhlen Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), NO- 7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: tor.inge.reigstad ntnu.no) Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), NO- 7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: kjetil.uhlen ntnu.no) Abstract: This paperproposesa hydraulicmodel based on the Eulerturbine eq uations suitable for the purpose of grid integration studies of variable speed hydro power (VSHP). The work was motivated by the need to assesshow the dynamic performancemigh t changewhen a hydropower plant is operated at variable speed. The Eulermodel considers the water ﬂow dependency on the turbine rotational speed and calculates the turbine power as a non-linear function of water ﬂow, turbine rotational speed and guide vane opening. A waterway model is included, based on the 1-D momentum and continuity balance for a water-ﬁlled elementa ry pipe to simulate water hammer, mass oscillation and tunnel losses. These detailed and accu rate models are necessary for recognising possible limitations in the hydraulic system, to model t he turbine power and rotational speed correctly and thereby to be able to maximise powe r delivery for system control purposes. All Eulermodel parameters can be derived from the physical dimensions of t he turbine and waterway, ensuring easy implementation. State-spac e representation of the Euler model is approximated by utilising a lumped-parameter equivalent of t he penstock dynamics. Dynamic simulations and eigenvalue analysis show the strength of the Eulermodel compared to conventional hydropower models. Keywords: Modelling and simulation of power systems, power systems stability, d ynamic interaction of power plants, control system design, control of r enewable energy resources, optimal operation and control of power systems 1. INTRODUCTION Variable speed hydropower (VSHP) is a suitable source for delivering additional ancillary services to the grid by actively utilising the stored kinetic energy in the turbine and generator. By allowing the turbine rotational speed to deviate temporarily from its optimal speed, the VSHP can vary its output power quickly due to the converter technology, see Basic et al. (2018). In the ﬁrst few seconds after a step response at the output power reference, the energy is delivered to or from the kinetic energy in the turbine and generator (Figure 1). Subsequently, the governor will react to the deviation in the turbine rotational speed and adjust the guide vane opening and thereby the mechanical power Pmto regain the optimal speed of the turbine. With that, the VSHP can contribute more eﬀectively to primary frequency control and the maintainingofgridstability. TheVSHP plantswill be able to provide fast frequency reserves in both production and in pumping mode, and the eﬃciency and operating range will potentially be widerthan forconventionalhydropower and other variable renewable sources without storage, see Valavi and Nysveen (2018). This work was supported by the Research council of Norway und er Grant257588 and by the Norwegian Research Centre forHydrop ower Technology (HydroCen).Fig. 1. Dynamic response when the VSHP output power is increased from 0.5 p.u. to 0.9 p.u. at t 5s The turbine and hydraulic system, including waterways, will experience new and diﬀerent operating conditions whenrunningatvariablespeed.Whenanalysingthepower system impacts and potential beneﬁts of variable speed operation, we need to know which dynamic constraints and limitations concerning the technology need to be taken into account. Thus, in this context, there are several good reasons for revisiting the modelling and analysis of hydropower plants, which is the aim of this paper. A suﬃciently detailed model of the system is needed to investigate the interactions between the VSHP plant and the grid: How can variable speed operation beneﬁt the security and ﬂexibility in power system operation? How can we explore the control possibilities from a system perspective while considering the limitations given by the water turbine system? This requires the development of non-linear time-domain simulation models that include tunnels, with physical constraints on water ﬂows, tur- bine, governor, generator with the magnetising system, generator-side converter and grid-side converter, and a representative test grid. This paper will focus on the turbine side of the generator by comparing four diﬀerent turbine models, two of them including a waterway model, to examine how accurate the models are when subjected to large variations in turbine rotational speed. The hydraulic system is modelled in diﬀerent ways, de- pending onapplicationandperformancerequirements.For example, the conduits in the hydraulic system can be modelled as electrical equivalent circuits, as presented in Souzaetal.(1999);Nicolet(2007)orastravellingwaves,as suggested in Demello et al. (1992). These models can con- sider both penstock, surge tank and tunnel dynamics and losses. Hydroelectric turbine-governor simulation models for commercial simulation programs are reviewed in Kori- tarov et al. (2013). Except for the Hygovm model, most of the existing models only consider the water starting time when modelling the conducts. The simplest turbine models assume that mechanical power equals the water ﬂow in per unit, see Koritarov etal.(2013)andKundur(1994).Hygovandsimilarmodels in Koritarov et al. (2013) do also consider variation in the head, the damping and the losses by subtracting the no-load water ﬂow. These models are linearised at the operational point, as seen in Saras ua et al. (2015) or a linearized model can be found from the turbine character- istic chart at the operational point, see Fang et al. (2008). Hill diagrams are used to include the turbine eﬃciency in Belhadji et al. (2011). Turbine characteristics are used in Pannatier et al. (2010) and Padoan et al. (2010) to ﬁnd the torque and ﬂow when rotational speed and guide vane opening are given. The Euler turbine equations of Nielsen (2015) also consider the rotational speed. A one- dimensional numerical model of a Francis turbine based on the Euler equations, which includes a waterway model is presented in Giosio et al. (2016). This model is tuned with test data and utilises look-up tables to ﬁnd churning losses and is utilised in a VSHP model with a doubly-fed induction machine (DFIM) in Nag and Lee (2018). Fang et al. (2008) present basic mathematical models for typical hydroelectric power plants and discuss how a turbine speed governor should be optimally tuned and how the physical
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	1 Augmented Synchronization of Power Systems Peng Yang, Feng Liu, Senior Member, IEEE, Tao Liu, Member, IEEE, David J. Hill, Life Fellow, IEEE Abstract Power system transient stability has been trans- lated into a Lyapunov stability problem of the post-disturbance equilibrium for decades. Despite substantial results, conventional theories suffer from the stringent requirement of knowing the post-disturbance equilibrium a priori. In contrast, the wisdom from practice, which certiﬁcates stability by only the observa- tion of converging frequencies and voltages, seems to provide an equilibrium-independent approach. Here, we formulate the empirical wisdom by the concept of augmented synchronization and aim to bridge such a theory-practice gap. First, we derive conditions under which the convergence to augmented synchro- nization implies the convergence to the equilibrium set, laying the ﬁrst theoretical foundation for the empirical wisdom. Then, we reveal from what initial values the power system can achieve augmented synchronization. Our results open the possibility of an equilibrium-independent power system stability analytic that re- deﬁnes the nominal motion as augmented synchronization rather than certain equilibrium. Single-machine examples and the IEEE 9-bus system well verify our results and illustrate promising implications. Index Terms Power system transient stability; augmented synchronization; AS-detectability; region of attraction. I. I NTRODUCTION TRANSIENT stability underlies functional operations of modern power grids, which usually span thousands of kilometers in open land and always suffer from various types of disturbances. It refers to the ability of a power system, for a given initial operating condition, to regain a (new) state of operating equilibrium after being subjected to a large disturbance such as short-circuit faults and sudden large load changes 1 . Although this descriptive deﬁnition covers the essence of transient stability, its interpretation diverges for theorists and engineering practitioners. Theoretically, transient stability has been translated into the equilibrium stability problem in the sense of Lyapunov for decades 2 . Under this framework, a set of ordinary dif- ferential equations (ODEs) or differential algebraic equations (DAEs) are used to describe the post-disturbance dynamics of a power system 1 . Theorists are interested in whether a post- disturbance equilibrium is Lyapunov asymptotically stable, and if so, what is the region of attraction (RoA), i.e., from which initial point the system solution can converge to this equilibrium. This idea has led to the so-called direct methods that are based on Lyapunov functions or energy functions 3 6 , and can directly assess transient stability without time-consuming simulations. Despite substantial results, such theories have been criticized for the stringent requirement on prior knowledge of the post-disturbance equilibrium. Such a requirement is unrealistic especially when the post-disturbance equilibrium depends on initial points. In some cases, system trajectories may converge to an equilibrium set, but none ofthe equilibria is asymptotically stable, and hence conventional direct methods fail. Indeed, taking a single stable equilibrium as the subject greatly restricts the capability of conventional transient stability theories. A rudimentary example will be shown in Section V, where these challenging issues can arise simply from interactions among subsystems. Fortunately, power system engineering practitioners have already found an intuitive and effective way to circumvent the aforementioned dilemma. Instead of an equilibrium-dependent stability concept, they often interpret and assess transient stability differently. After a large disturbance, if all frequencies synchronize to around the nominal value (50 or 60 Hz), and all voltages converge to steady-state values within a certain safety region, then the power system will be regarded to successfully regain an operating point, and hence is transiently stable. This practical criterion demands no information of the post-disturbance equilibrium but only the observation of converging frequencies and voltages. This feature is appealing in practice as it is impossible to monitor all state variables while the measurement of frequencies and voltages are often easy to obtain 7 . Although this empirical wisdom works well, one intriguing and important question remains: does the convergence of only frequencies and voltages guarantee the convergence of all states? After all, it is the latter, not the former, that the transient stability actually concerns. A mismatch between demand and supply of theories exists as well. Although equilibrium-independent transient stability analytics has been advocated in the power system community for decades, which, to the best of our knowl- edge, dates back to the pioneering work by J. L. Willems in 1974 8 , the progress seems stagnant. Despite several mathematical concepts beyond Lyapunov stability have been proposed, e.g., partial stability 9 , set stabilization 10 and contraction analysis 11 , they rarely ﬁnd proper applications in power systems (studies handling phase rotational symmetry are among few exceptions 8 , 12 , 13 ). A more favorable concept is synchronization , which has been drawing increasing attention recently 13 19 . It focuses on the synchronized state in stability analysis, instead of a given equilibrium. However, most existing works on this topic concern only synchrony among generators and are built on network-reduced ODEs models that assume constant voltages 15 18 . Such models cannot capture the dynamical behavior of voltages, and fall short to capture heterogeneous devices in modern power grids. A more compatible and equilibrium-independent theory is still in need. A clear gap between theory and practice stands before us. On the one hand, practical experience indicates that we can assess transient stability in an equilibrium-independent fashion but without knowing why. On the other hand, the equilibrium-arXiv:2106.13166v2 eess.SY 18 Sep 2021 2 dependent Lyapunov stability theory often encounters limita- tions in practice. Here, we aim to bridge this theory-practice gap by introducing the concept of augmented synchronization , which means all frequencies synchronize and all voltages converge to steady states. Inspired by the practice wisdom, we re-deﬁne the nominal motion of power systems as an augmented synchronous state instead of an equilibrium. And we re-interpret power system transient stability as convergence to augmented synchronization after a disturbance rather than to any speciﬁed post-disturbance equilibrium. Our interpretation conforms to the physical deﬁnition of power system tran- sient stability and more importantly, will allow equilibrium- independent analytics. To this end, we aim
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	arXiv:2106.07590v3 eess.SY 28 Apr 2022Decision making under uncertainty for deploying battery storage as a non-wire alternative in distribution networks Marc Barbara, Dharik S. Mallapragadaa, Robert Stonera aMassachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, 02141, MA, U.S.A. Abstract Thegrowingdemandforelectricityinemergingmarketsanddevelopin geconomies (EMDE) is causing loading and congestion problems on distribution net works, particularly in urban locations, that adversely impact sustainable de velopment and economic growth. Electric utilities in these economies face unique con- straints regarding raising capital required to upgrade their conge sted networks. Battery storage has emerged as a non-wire alternative (NWA) to f eeder up- grades. This article presents a ﬂexible valuation framework for bat tery storage use in distribution networks and its application in the context of EMDE distri- bution network planning. We evaluate the value of storage as an NWA using a multi-stage decision making process that combines system optimiza tion with markov-decision processes (MDP) to identify the least-cost netw ork upgrade strategy under demand growth uncertainty. This approach was a pplied to dis- tribution feeders in Delhi, India, and results highlight the cost-eﬀec tiveness of battery storage to manage load growth while deferring network inv estments. Across the low, medium and high battery storage capital cost proj ections for 2030, we estimate that 18 to 29 GWh of battery storage capacity c ould be deployed to defer 11,752 to 15,914 km of medium voltage distribution f eeder lines that are loaded at 60 or more of their ampere capacity in 2030, resulting in 12 to 16 capital cost savings. Interestingly, lowering storage c apital costs does not always lead to increased storage deployment, due to netw ork capacity constraints limiting opportunities for oﬀ-peak storage charging. 1. Introduction Investments in electrical distribution networks tend to be lumpy 1 since they require large capital commitment initially and involve signiﬁcant econom ies of scale because the assets havelong lifetimes (20 to 40 years). Cons equently, long- term distribution network planning is often necessary to identify th e timing and size of investments needed to meet future demand reliably and cost -eﬀectively while maximizing asset utilization. With declining cost of Li-ion battery en ergy storage (referred as battery storage here on), there is growin g interest to con- sider its use as a non-wires alternative (NWA) to defer expensive dis tribution network upgrades and serve rapidly growing peak demand within elec tricity dis- Preprint submitted to Elsevier April 29, 2022 tribution networks. The modularity of battery storage as well as it s ﬂexibility both in terms of location and speed of deployment are in stark contr ast to the attributes of conventional network investments and thus repre sent a potentially valuable option to be considered in network planning. The role for sto rage as a ﬂexible investment option 2 is particularly relevant for loaded urb an distri- bution systems in megacities in fast-growing emerging market and de veloping economy (EMDE) countries, such as Cairo (Egypt), Delhi (India) a nd Jakarta (Indonesia), because of several factors 3, 4 . First, many of th ese cities are experiencing rapid electricity demand growth, due to growing adopt ion of air conditioners (AC) for space cooling 5, 6 that contributes to net work congestion through increasing peak electricity demand 7 . Second, distribution companies inmanyofEMDEcountriesareoftenﬁnanciallyconstrained 8 andha vetocon- tend with relatively high cost of capital to ﬁnance network investme nts. Third, the premium on land use and geographical constraints in some of the se megaci- ties could result in further network investments (reconductoring and upgrading lines) to be operationally challenging or infeasible 9, 10 . Here, we ana lyze the optimal sizing and placement of battery storage and its economic va lue as an NWA at the primary feeder level in urban electricity distribution netw orks of Indian megacities such as Delhi. India s electricity demand is projected to more than double by mid-ce ntury 11 , primarily from increasing electricity use for space cooling in the building s sector and to a lesser extent, by electriﬁcation of transportation 7, 12 . Much of the growth in energy demand is concentrated in megacities like Delhi, wher e 55 of electricity use is residential, which is more than double the national average (24 ) 5 . Distribution companies in Delhi are witnessing a level of grow th in cooling demand that is capable of overloading the network equipmen t - for example, feeder data for 2018 indicates that 28 of feeders were loaded at 60 or more on an ampere capacity basis. As of 2020, Delhi s peak power d emand was 6.7 GW 13 , and long-term demand projections from our prior wor k 5 suggest wide variation in possible outcomes depending energy neede d for space cooling related electricity demand (see Table 1). This wide range of po ssible future outcomes creates signiﬁcant uncertainty for investment planning in the distribution networks. Table 1: Projected peak demand (GW) under the baseline and hi gh-AC-eﬃciency scenarios assuming stable GDP growth for the city state of Delhi. Furth er details in 5 High AC eﬃciency Baseline 2020 6.7 6.7 2030 12.7 15.2 2040 25 36.7 2050 34 63.8 Historically, distribution companies have not considered demand unc ertainty in their long-term network planning, but have instead resorted to d eterministic net present value methodologies 1, 14 . Demand forecasts enable a comparative assessment of programimplementation such as eﬃciency, policy, an d technology under various scenarios. Probabilistic forecasting and ﬂexible plann ing may be most useful in situations when the magnitude of future outcomes e xhibit wide variations, which is the case for the peak electricity demand projec tions for 2 a city like Delhi (Table 1). Accounting for uncertainty in investment p lanning mayparticularlybe importantwhencontemplatingthe useofdistribu ted energy resources (DER) as an alternative to grid expansion, owing to the m odularity of DER technologies and their speed of deployment. Until recently, most DER in EMDE countries have been in the form of diesel generators deploy ed near large commercial and industrial (C I) loads 15 . However,
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__energy	Programmable Turbine Failsafe System for Pico-Hydroelectric Power in the Nepal Himalayas James Hsi-Jen Yeh, Rick Sturdivant, Member, IEEE, Mark Stambaugh, Alex Zahnd Dept. of Eng. and Computer Science Azusa Pacific University 901 E Alosta Ave, Azusa, CA 91702 RIDS-USA RIDS-Switzerland Abstract In this paper, we describe a novel turbine failsafe system designed for a pico-hydroelectric power generation. We designed and built a pico-hydroelectric system in a remote rural Himalayan village. We developed a Prioritized Load Control System (PLCS) that diverts excess electrical power to useful purposes such as heating up bath water and the air in the community center when the electrical demand from the village is low; instead of dumping the excess electricity back into the river in the form of heat. A critical part of the PLCS system is the failsafe mechanism where the turbines and electrical components on the grid are protected in case any part of the PLCS system stops functioning, possibly intermittently. Our novel failsafe system contains the following enhancements compared to previous systems: (1) adjustable threshold voltage, (2) controllable fractional power diversion with adjustable parameters, (3) automatic reset with adjustable parameters. In addition, the failsafe subsystem uses the widely available Arduino platform and programming environment, and JSON for human readable and writable communications, demonstrating their suitability for critical applications. (Abstract) Keywords Renewable Energy, hydroelectric power, pico-hydro, green technology, turbine failsafe, Arduino, JSON (key words) I. INTRODUCTION As a central part of the pilot pico-hydroelectric project in the remote Himalayan village of Moharigaun in the Jumla district of Nepal 1-3 , we developed a Prioritized Dump Load Control (PLCS) system, to fully utilize the excess electrical power when the electrical demand from the village is low. When the electrical usage falls, for example during the night, the speed and voltage of the hydroelectric turbine generator will rise, causing damage to the turbines and connected electrical devices 4 . A dump load circuit is typically used to heat up resistors and dump the excess electricity back to the river. The purpose of the PLCS is to create value for the villagers with the excess power, such as heating up water tanks for shower water and biogas digesters. The users of the system can set their own priority, based on their needs, regarding the distribution of the excess power, in such a way that low priority tanks are given power only when high priority tanks have reached their target temperature. The AC Load Controller subsystem of the PLCS, which provides computer-controlled power to multiple useful loads dispersed throughout the village as excess power becomes available, is described in a separate article 5 . As a part of the hydroelectric generation system, a failsafe is installed close to the turbine to protect the turbines and the electric components connected to the grid. Previously, a crowbar circuit is often installed to protect the turbine from damage if the turbine speed and voltages rise uncontrollably 6 due to a reduction in electrical load. However, the crowbar circuit requires manual reset. Also, when it is activated, power generation is interrupted. Previous efforts have been developed to provide electronic control of the dump load using programmable logic controllers and microcomputers 7, 8 . We designed and created a new failsafe subsystem that aims to achieve the following: 1) Threshold voltages that can be adjusted locally or remotely. 2) Power dumping that is a fraction of the generated power, which is a (linear, proportional-integral-derivative , or non-linear) function of the voltage above the threshold, with parameters and functions adjustable and selectable locally or remotely. This has the potential of smoothing out the voltage fluctuation in the turbine and in the grid, while continuing supplying power to the grid. 3) Automatic reset via fractional dump power back-off to mitigate the need for manual reset, with parameters adjustable locally or remotely. This additionally smooth out potential voltage fluctuations. As a final safeguard, a crowbar circuit is additionally deployed in case the failsafe subsystem fails. This paper describes the novel failsafe subsystem, which is based on the Arduino platform and programmed using the Arduino Integrated Development Environment, and uses JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) for communications. II. FAILSAFE HARDWARE A. Platform For this project, we chose the Arduino Mega platform. The Arduino Mega is a widely available board based on the Atmel ATMega2560 microcontroller 9 . It is low cost, and includes 54 digital I O pins, out of which 15 can simulate analog output via PWM (pulse-width modulation), and 16 analog input pins, which are required for this project. It contains 256kB of flash memory, 8kB of SRAM and runs at 16MHz. The Arduino Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is one of the most popular open-source development systems. It is extremely stable and is very well documented and supported, with open-source user-contributed libraries for many common task and specialized components. TABLE I. FAILSAFE CARRIER BOARD SUBSYSTEMS The Arduino-compatible systems have very fast boot time, on the order of 5 seconds, as compared to other systems such as the Raspberry Pi, where the boot time can be 30 seconds or more. In critical power control applications, slow boot times after a power failure or system crash can be disastrous. In addition, the Arduino system is essentially a single-threaded execution environment. Therefore, all program control flow and critical timing are in control of the programmer. This is as opposed to platforms running an operating system such as Linux, where the operating system and services can introduce complexity and timing uncertainty and instability to critical operations. A carrier board was designed and fabricated with all of the external components, including communications chips, control chips, and sensing chips, on which the Arduino Mega board mates directly via its header pins. This created a mechanically and electrically stable interface. The subsystems on the carrier board are listed in Table 1. B. Dump Load Drivers The dump load uses high-voltage STGWT40 IGBT s (Integrated Gate Bipolar Transistor) to divert excess power to each of the 3 banks of dump resistors. The IGBT s
__label__energy	1 Enabling Heterogeneous Catalys is to Achieve Carbon Neutrality: Directional Catalytic Conversion of CO 2 into Carboxylic Acids Xiaofei Zhang, xxx, Huabin Zhang Dr. X. Zhang, Prof. H. Zhang KAUST Catalysis Center (KCC), King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal 23955 -6900, Saudi Arabia Email: Huabin.zhang kaust.edu.sa Abstract The increas e in anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions has exacerbated the deterioration of the global environment , which should be controlled to achieve carbon neutrality. Central to the core goal of ach ieving carbon neutrality is the utilization of CO 2 under economic and sustainable conditions. Recently, the strong need for carbon neutrality has led to a proliferation of studies on the direct conversion of CO 2 into carboxylic acids, which could effective ly alleviate CO 2 emissions and create high -value chemicals. The purpose of this review is to present the application prospects of carboxylic acids and the basic principles of CO 2 conversion into carboxylic acids through photo -, electric -, and thermal catal ysis. Special attention is focused on the regulation strategy of the activity of abundant catalysts at the molecular level, inspiring the preparation of high -performance catalysts. In addition, theoretical calculation, advanced technologies, and numerous t ypical examples are introduced to elaborate on the corresponding process and influencing factors of catalytic activity. Finally, 2 challenges and prospects are provided for the future development of this field. It is hoped that this review contributes to a d eeper understanding of the conversion of CO 2 into carboxylic acids and inspires more innovative breakthroughs. 1. Introduction 1.1 General Background With the intensification of the global energy crisis and environmental deterioration caused by the warming climate, aiming for carbon -neutral recycling is in imminent demand regardless of environmental protection or economic development (1, 2). The effective conversion of carbon dioxide (CO 2) into fine chemicals has undoubtedly emerged as a powerful strate gy to achieve carbon -neutral recycling due to its low cost and potentially low energy consumption (3- 5). Extensive cost -effective conversion paths have been explored to realize such conversion practicably (5-8). To date, various methods and strategies, including biological transformation, photocatalytic reduction, electrocatal ytic reduction, organic transformation, dry reforming, and others, have been explored to convert CO 2 into valuable chemicals based on continuing in - depth studies over the past two decades (9-11). In general, CO 2 can be converted into numerous chemicals, such as CO, carboxylic acids, CH 3OH, CH 4, olefin, and so on, under the drivers of light, electricity, and heat (12, 13 ). A large volume of CO 2 emissions in the atmosphere is regarded as exhaust gas and the root cause of environmental dete rioration, whereas these products could become valuable raw chemical materials with wide application value through catalytic conversion. A well -known application of CO is the synthesis of aldehydes through hydroformylation reaction, and high toxicity also poses challenges for its use and storage (14). Another product, CH 3OH, can be widely used as 3 a fuel and is a vital chemical compound for producing long -chain hydrocarbons (15). Similarly, methane is an important storage fuel with the advantage of low -cost storage (16). Produced olefins, such as ethylene and propylene, are key chemicals in fa bricating plastics, medicines, and paints (17). Although CH 3OH, CH 4, and olefin have obvious economic value, their production processes undergo multiple electron transfers, leading to poor conversion efficiency and unsatisfactory product selectivity (18). In contrast to these products, carboxylic acids occupy a unique position due to the great breakthroughs made in recent years and their comme rcial value and apparent advantages, such as low toxicity, high density, and high value per kWh of electrical energy input, over other products. Despite the great progress achieved in the conversion and utilization of CO 2 in the past few decades, the extre me stability of CO 2 creates considerable challenges in its activation to participate in synthesizing carboxylic acids via specific intermediates and control the selectivity of carboxylic acids due to competitive reactions. This daunting challenge has promp ted the development of outstanding heterogeneous catalysts to efficiently convert CO 2 into carboxylic acids under mild conditions. Currently, the reported emerging nano -materials, including clusters, metal oxide, porous materials, organic -inorganic hybrid materials and alloys, have proved efficient heterogeneous catalysts presenting superior catalytic activity to homogeneous catalysts in producing carboxylic acids (19, 20 ). More effort should be made to discern the decisive factors in producing carboxylic acids through a dvanced characterization techniques and theoretical calculations to develop ideal catalysts based on an accurate understanding of the mechanical process to realize large -scale, efficient production of carboxylic acids with CO 2. 4 1.2 Introduction of Carboxyl ic Acid Compounds Carboxylic acids encompassing formic, acetic, benzoic, acetylenic, amino, lactic, and other acids are essential components in fine chemicals and are regarded as core compounds in the natural carbon cycle (21). These chemicals have great application value in synthesizing chemical compounds and energy conversion. In all these carboxylic acids, formic acid has the smallest molecular formula and can be obtained in high yield with clean water or hydrogen as a reactant to react with CO 2 over numerous heterogeneous catalysts (22). In addition, it is also regarded as a safe and convenient hydrogen storage carrier due to its high volumetric capacity of 53 g H 2 L, which can be converted into cle an electricity in direct formic acid fuel cells with appealing advantages, such as easy transportation and storage and high theoretical open -circuit voltage (23). Furthermore, it is an important chemical intermediate, which can be widely used in the leather, pesticide, antibacterial agent, medicine, livestock feed, dyestuff, and rubber industries (24). Moreover, other multi -carbon carboxylic acids have equivalent application prospects a nd economic value to formic acid. For example, they have been widely used as preservatives in pharmaceutical, cosmetic, agriculture, and polymer industries and are recognized as valuable platform chemicals for a growing nonfossil industry (25). The industrial production of carboxylic
__label__energy	Data Driven Transfer Functions and Transmission Network Parameters for GIC Modelling M. J. Heyns y, C. T. Gaunt , S. I. Lotzyand P. J. Cilliers y Department of Electrical Engineering University of Cape Town (UCT), Cape Town, South Africa ySouth African National Space Agency (SANSA) Hermanus, South Africa mheyns sansa.org.za Abstract Typical geomagnetically induced current (GIC) modelling assumes the induced quasi-DC current at a node in the transmission network is linearly related to the local geoelectric ﬁeld by a pair of network parameters. Given a limited time-series of measured geomagnetic and GIC data, an empirical method is presented that results in a statistically signiﬁcant generalised ensemble of parameter estimates with the error in the estimates identiﬁed. The method is showcased for different transmission networks and geomagnetic storms and, where prior modelling exists, shows improved GIC estimation. Furthermore, modelled networks can be locally characterised and probed without any further network knowledge. Insights include network parameter variation, effective network directionality and response. Merging the network parameters and geoelectric ﬁeld estimation, a transfer function is derived which offers an alternative approach to assessing transformer exposure to GICs. Index Terms Ensemble estimation, geomagnetically induced currents (GICs), transmission network parameters I. I NTRODUCTION The effects of geomagnetically induced currents (GICs) in communications and power systems were well known for many years before the ﬁrst signiﬁcant papers on calculating the GICs appeared 1 . Initially, the driving near-Earth current system was modelled as a line or sheet, giving by ﬁrst prin- ciples different answers for the power line currents. Another approach gave the transformer neutral currents directly - by calculating the DC-equivalent of the voltages induced in the whole network by a uniform plane-wave 2 . For a given node, the traditional nodal modelling formulation is GIC (t) aEx(t) bEy(t); (1) whereaandbare derived constants based on network topology and resistances assuming 1 V km geoelectric (E- ﬁeld) components ExandEy, wherexandyindicates the North and East directions respectively. These E-ﬁeld com- ponents are typically not measured, but rather derived from This work was supported in part by a grant from the Open Philanthropy Project. The authors would like to further acknowledge Eskom and the EPRI Sunburst project for measured GIC data in South Africa and similarly Powerlink Queensland in Australia and Tennessee Valley Authority in the USA, for which CTG is a strategic partner.the measured geomagnetic ﬁeld (B-ﬁeld). The E-ﬁeld and B-ﬁeld can be related in the frequency domain through the surface impedance. Surface impedance models have varying degrees of complexity and of the several methods developed, a multi-layered ground conductivity is widely used due to its generality, simplicity and apparent accuracy 3 . Regardless of E-ﬁeld derivation method, assumptions of DC-equivalence and constant network parameters remain in GIC modelling approaches. A recent paper 4 examined the DC-equivalence assumption by comparing measured E-ﬁeld and GIC data at a node, showing that empirical aandbparameters as deﬁned by (1) in the frequency domain are frequency dependent. The source of the frequency dependence is difﬁcult to pin down since the measured E-ﬁeld at a single node is not necessarily the same as the network effective E-ﬁeld. This current work follows the nodal formulation of (1), but differs signiﬁcantly in that the network parameters are not assumed to be constant. Relaxing this assumption allows for a simple approach of a fast, effective transform from B-ﬁeld to GIC with accurate effective network parameter estimation, while acknowledging possible unmodelled frequency dependence and other uncer- tainty, directly applicable to planning and operations. Building from the nodal formalism of GIC modelling, the ensemble methodology of network parameter estimation is presented in Section II. Three different datasets from around the world are used to generate network parameter ensembles and test their performance in Section IV, with the data used described in Section III. Section IV-A looks speciﬁcally into the characteristics of GICs in the local networks derived from the network parameter ensembles. Section IV-B further expands the ensemble methodology to compute transfer func- tions straight from B-ﬁeld to GIC. Both the E-ﬁeld to GIC and B-ﬁeld to GIC ensemble methods are tested in Section IV-C. The focus throughout this paper is on operational modelling, with emphasis on estimating the uncertainty associated with traditional modelling. II. E NSEMBLE ESTIMATION Traditional GIC modelling recognizes three steps in cal- culating transformer neutral currents: derivation of local B- ﬁeld components from suitable measured or interpolated mag- netic measurements; a frequency dependent transform through Accepted to the 21st Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC 2020)arXiv:2004.08837v2 physics.space-ph 22 Jun 2020 the surface impedance to an E-ﬁeld; and network analysis. Assuming the driving disturbance B-ﬁeld from near-Earth current systems is spatially uniform and vertically incident at the Earth s surface, along with laterally homogeneous ground conductivity, a conservative E-ﬁeld would be produced through Faraday s law. Given a purely resistive network, the system can be modelled perfectly by (1). Although these assumptions can be justiﬁed as approximations, there are several challenges to traditional GIC modelling. Ground conductivity is not laterally homogeneous and interfaces, such as the coast, can have a signiﬁcant effect on the magnitude and direction of the induced E-ﬁeld 5 . Adding that the driving current systems do not produce a uniform B-ﬁeld over an area the size of a network, the E-ﬁeld is not strictly conservative and the transmission line shape is signiﬁcant 3 . The network analysis needed to derive the network parameters is not trivial and the entire network needs to be taken into account 6 . Individual transformers can inﬂuence each other 7 , along with different voltage levels and possible non-linear inductive network response which is the topic of very recent research 8 , 9 . There are also variables such as the effect of rainfall on grounding resistance that add unmodelled complexity 10 . Given the multitude of higher-order effects, the current state of the art, which makes use of dense electromagnetic surveys and requires detailed network information, still does not fully model the nature of measured GICs. In comparison the traditional modelling framework does surprisingly well,
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__energy	1 Hetero-functional Network Minimum Cost Flow Optimization: A Hydrogen-Natural Gas Network Example Wester C.H. Schoonenberg, Amro M. Farid Abstract Over the past decades, engineering systems have developed as networks of systems that deliver multiple services across multiple domains. This work aims to develop an optimization program for a dynamic, hetero-functional graph theory-based model of an engineering system. The manuscript ﬁrst introduces a general approach to deﬁne a dynamic system model by integrating the device models in the hetero-functional graph theory structural model. To this end, the work leverages Petri net dynamics and the hetero- functional incidence tensor. The respective Petri net-based models are translated into the quadratic program canonical form to ﬁnalize the optimization program. The optimiza- tion program is demonstrated through the application of the program to a hydrogen-natural gas infrastructure test case. Four distinct scenarios are optimized to demonstrate potential synergies or cascading network e ﬀects of policy across infrastructures. This work develops the ﬁrst hetero-functional graph theory-based optimization program and demonstrates that the program can be used to optimize ﬂows across a multi- operand network, transform the operands in the network, store operands over time, analyze the behavior for a quadratic cost function, and implement it for a generic, continuous, large ﬂexible engineering systems of arbitrary topology. I. Introduction Over the past decades, engineering systems have de- veloped as networks of systems that deliver multiple services across multiple domains 1 . Examples of such socio-technical systems are the electriﬁed transportation system 2 4 , the energy-water nexus 5 8 , and the multi-modal energy system 9 . These systems have be- come increasingly interdependent across domains as a result of market forces and the associated pursuit of eﬃciency and cost reductions 10 . For example, the New England electric power grid relies more than ever on natural gas for its electricity generation, whereas the same natural gas is also needed to heat homes in the winter. The interdependence of engineering system services has lead to a need for a better understanding of the holis- tic dynamics and trade-o ﬀs in these systems 1 , 11 . Modeling tools can support the pursuit for more insight into engineering system and their optimal control. These tools need to be quantitative, represent the heterogeneity Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA, Wester.C.H.Schoonenberg.TH Dartmouth.edu Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA, amfarid dartmouth.eduof the modeled system, and be generalizable across domains 12 . Existing optimization methods are generally based on conventional graph theoretic approaches, or on disci- pline and application speciﬁc dynamic models. Mini- mum cost ﬂow programs, for example, are based on networks 13 and consequently fail to address hetero- geneity of function. The multilayer networks community has aimed to expand graph theory to accommodate heterogeneity of function 14 , but Kivela et. al. have identiﬁed eight modeling limitations to the types of systems that can be modeled with multi-layer networks 15 . Consequently, optimization programs based on those foundations inherently impose those same limi- tations. A graph-based approach was also used in the multi-commodity network ﬂow optimization programs 16 18 . This approach does implement a notion of heterogeneity of function, but it does not integrate a speciﬁc description of operand state or storage in its program. Finally, approaches that optimize discipline or application speciﬁc programs lack generalizability 12 . Hetero-functional Graph Theory, however, provides a rigorous modeling method that does not impose the previously mentioned modeling limitations of multilayer networks 10 . Furthermore, hetero-functional graph theory has been used in a variety of engineering system applications, to deﬁne both structural 10 , 19 24 and dynamic models 4 , 25 29 . However, hetero- functional graph theory has not been used as a founda- tion to an optimization program. This work proposes the ﬁrst hetero-functional graph theory-based optimization program. A. Original Contribution This work intends to deﬁne the ﬁrst hetero-functional network minimum cost ﬂow optimization program. This entails that the optimization program balances supply and demand of multiple types of operands at distinct locations over time. The work solves the problem as a linearly constrained, convex quadratic program. The program can be applied to a wide variety of unlike ap- plication domains, as the operands may be transformed, assembled, and disjoined. In the process of developing the hetero-functional network minimum cost ﬂow optimization program, this work also establishes the ﬁrst formal connection betweenarXiv:2104.00504v1 eess.SY 1 Apr 2021 2 the hetero-functional incidence tensor, arc-constant col- ored Petri nets, and the engineering system net. Further- more, it establishes the ﬁrst integration of device models to the system service feasibility matrices that couple the engineering system net dynamics to the operand behavior. Finally, this work demonstrates the hetero-functional network minimum cost ﬂow optimization program by optimizing the ﬁrst hydrogen-natural gas infrastructure test case. B. Outline The background (Sec. II) provides an introduction to Hetero-functional Graph Theory and Petri nets. The for- mer is used as the structural backbone of the model, and the latter is used as a foundation to describe the system s dynamics. Sec. III introduces the hetero-functional graph based dynamic model that incorporates device models. Sec. IV then deﬁnes the hetero-functional network min- imum cost ﬂow optimization program. Sec. V introduces a hydrogen-natural gas networked infrastructure test case as an example engineering system. This test case is modeled and optimized in Sec. VI. Sec. VI presents the hetero-functional graph model, the minimum cost ﬂow optimization program, and the outcomes of the optimization program for the speciﬁed test case. Finally, Sec. VII concludes the work and recaps the main contri- butions of the work to the literature. II. Background Hetero-functional Graph Theory (HFGT) was intro- duced over a decade ago for the study of reconﬁg- urability of manufacturing systems 19 , 30 32 and has since been applied to a number of large ﬂexi- ble engineering systems including electric power grids, water systems, transportation systems, healthcare, and interdependent infrastructures. Schoonenberg et al. 10 have produced a consolidating text on Hetero-functional Graph Theory, which
__label__energy	Real-time Modeling of Offshore Wind Turbines for Transient Simulation and Studies Thai-Thanh Nguyen ECE Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY , USA tnguyen clarkson.eduTuyen Vu ECE Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY , USA tvu clarkson.eduThomas Ortmeyer ECE Department Clarkson University Potsdam, NY , USA tortmeye clarkson.edu George Stefopoulos Advanced Grid Innovation Lab for Energy New York Power Authority White Plains, NY , USA Georgios.Stefopoulos nypa.govGreg Pedrick New York Power Authority White Plains, NY , USA Gregory.Pedrick nypa.govJason MacDowell GE Power Schenectady, NY , USA jason.macdowell ge.com Abstract The real-time models of offshore wind turbines are proposed in this study, which are developed in compliance with the Western Electricity Coordinating Council (WECC) standard to meet the industry requirements. In addition to basic functionalities of the generic WECC turbine model such as power curtailment and voltage ride through, the sequence current control and sequence current limit are designed for future electromagnetic transient (EMT) testing and control of offshore wind farms. Both average-value and switching detailed models are modeled in the Opal-RT simulator. Both balanced and unbalanced faults are studied to show the feasibility of the proposed turbine models. The models are validated against the WECC second-generation generic wind turbine model. The active and reactive power results for low-voltage ride through cases validated the turbine model s performance against WECC generic model in the balanced system. In addition, the models provide extended capability in mitigating the active power oscillation during unbalanced fault conditions. Index Terms Offshore wind turbines, direct drives, permanent magnet synchronous generators; negative sequence current control, turbine model validation. I. I NTRODUCTION Offshore wind energies have recently attracted considerable attention because of the necessity for decarbonisation and the decrease of fossil fuels, as well as their ability to produce more wind power at a higher efﬁciency than onshore wind energy systems 1 . Thanks to the fast advancement of offshore wind turbine technology, the offshore wind system is now cost-competitive with direct-drive multi-megawatt turbines. The problem of gearbox failure is addressed by advanced technology of the direct-drive turbine systems, resulting in an increase in the usage of high-power direct-drive turbines capable of producing up to 15 MW 2 , 3 . Offshore wind projects are getting bigger as developer experience and industry maturity signiﬁcantly increase. Modeling of offshore wind turbines that meets industry standards is critical for assessing the performance of offshore wind projects. Various detailed electromagnetic transient (EMT) models of wind turbines have been presented, which have been developed using ofﬂine simulation tools like PSCAD EMTDC,EMTP, and MATLAB Simulink. These models, while allowing for the modeling and simulation of complicated turbine models for transient simulation, are not real-time and are generally sluggish. A generic EMT-type turbine model with a 2 MW capability has been presented in 4 , with the proposed model being validated against ﬁeld testing of the ENERCON E-82 2.3 MW turbine. In 5 , a 5 MW PMSG wind turbine model with low-voltage ride-through capabilities has been introduced, which is assessed using the US grid code. However, the proposed models in 4 and 5 were designed based on the phasor domain (positive sequence),which may result in improper protection system functioning under some imbalanced situations owing to the lack of negative sequence current contribution during the fault. Furthermore, during unbalanced fault conditions, the presence of negative sequence voltage produces second-order harmonic oscillations in output active power and DC-link voltage. 6 . A 1.5 MW wind turbine model based on symmetrical components was presented in 7 , with the capacity to inject negative sequence current during unbalanced faults. The sequence-based detailed switching (DSW) and averaged- value (A VG) models were also examined, but neither was implemented in real time. In addition, the A VG model could not adequately capture the DSW model s dynamic responses. According to the CPU-usage measurements in 7 , the DSW model used 144.7 s of CPU time for a 1 s simulation time period, whereas the A VG model consumed 28.8 s. Therefore, there is still a research need to ﬁll, as well as a requirement to develop and test real-time turbine models. Real-time models of wind turbines have been presented in the literature 8 11 . These models, however, depict small wind turbines with capacities of 1.5 MW and 2 MW, which are insufﬁcient for offshore wind farms that incorporate turbines power of more than 6 MW due to the lack of voltage- ride through capability. In addition, these models do not have the capacity to regulate negative sequences and have not been validated against any international standards. To overcome these limitations, this study proposes real-time DSWarXiv:2108.08900v2 eess.SY 4 Feb 2022 and A VG turbine models of high-power direct-drive PMSG wind turbines for offshore wind studies. The proposed models are validated against the Western Electricity Coordinating Council (WECC) standard to ensure that they are applicable for practical studies. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: Real-time models of high-power direct-drive wind turbines that meet international standards are proposed. Both detailed switching and average-value models are developed and evaluated by the real-time simulator. The proposed sequence-based real-time turbine models are capable of injecting negative sequence current during unbalanced faults. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Detailed wind turbine model and its control system in accordance with the WECC standard are presented in Section II. Section III describes the model validation against the WECC standard. Section IV presents the evaluation of both DSW and A VG models under normal and abnormal conditions including balanced and unbalanced dynamic studies. Finally, the main ﬁndings of this paper is summarized in Section V. II. W INDTURBINE MODELING A. Conﬁguration of Direct-drive PMSG Wind Turbine The typical conﬁguration of the direct-drive PMSG wind turbines is depicted in Fig. 1, in which the wind turbine is directly connected with the rotor of the synchronous generator. The back-to-back (BTB) converter, which consists of a machine-side converter (MSC), a grid-side converter (GSC), and a DC chopper, is linked to the stator winding of the PMSG. The MSC is
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	XXX Journal Title Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX https: doi.org XXXX XXXX xxxx-xxxx xx xxxxxx 1 Enhancing Bistable Vibration Energy Harvesters with Tunable Circuits: A Comparative Analysis Adrien Morel1, Quentin Demouron1, Adrien Badel1 1 SYMME, Université Savoie Mont-Blanc, France E-mail: adrien.morel univ-smb.fr Received xxxxxx Accepted for publication xxxxxx Published xxxxxx Abstract In this article, we present an analysis of the effects of nonlinear circuits on bistable vibration energy harvesters. We begin by introducing an analytical model for bistable vibration energy harvesters and demonstrate that the impact of nonlinear circuits can be characterized by two factors: electrically-induced damping and electrically-induced stiffness. Subsequently, we investigate how these factors influence the power-frequency response of the harvester. Our findings reveal that electrically-induced damping significantly affects the bistable vibration energy harvester dynamics, whereas electrically-induced stiffness has minimal impact, which is a notable difference from the behavior of linear harvesters connected to nonlinear circuits. Thereafter, we conduct a comparative study of bistable energy harvesters connected to different nonlinear circuits already well documented in the literature. Our analysis demonstrates that, in most cases, the parallel synchronized switch harvesting on inductor circuit yields superior performance due to its ability to maximize electrically-induced damping. These comparative assessments and conclusions are evaluated within the framework of our proposed models and are contrasted with results obtained from linear vibration energy harvesters. The derived comparison maps presented at the end of this paper offer quantitative justification for selecting the optimal circuit for bistable energy harvesters, while deepening our comprehension of the intricate dynamics associated with nonlinear harvesters coupled with nonlinear circuits. Keywords: Vibration energy harvester, Nonlinear dynamics, Harmonic balance, Nonlinear circuits, Bi-stability, SECE, SSHI.1. Introduction In recent years, vibration energy scavenging has emerged as a promising alternative to batteries for powering sensor nodes, especially in closed confined environments where traditional energy sources like solar and thermal gradients are limited 1 . Among various electromechanical transduction mechanisms, the utilization of piezoelectric energy harvesters at the centimeter scale has gained significant attention due to their ability to convert mechanical strain into storable electrical energy with high power densities 2 . Piezoelectricity-based vibration energy harvesters (VEH) consist of two main components: i) The electromechanical resonator, which converts ambient vibration energy into strain applied to the piezoelectric material. This strain generates electrical charges due to direct piezoelectric effect. ii) The electrical circuit, responsible for extracting energy from the piezoelectric material and converting the AC voltage across its electrodes into a DC voltage suitable for charging a battery or capacitor. Both these two aspects of VEH have been thoroughly investigated and optimized during the last decades. In order to enhance the power and harvesting bandwidth of electromechanical resonators, nonlinearities have been progressively incorporated and engineered 3 . Indeed, as proven in the seminal paper of Cottone et al. 4 , nonlinear electromechanical resonators exhibit wider bandwidths of their linear counterparts, tackling one of their main drawbacks: their sensitivity to vibration frequency shifts 5 . Various types of nonlinear VEH have been studied by the community, in order to enhance the harvesting power and bandwidth, such as monostable resonators 6,7 , bistable Duffing-type resonators 8,9 , and more recently, tri-stable 10 and multi-stable 11 resonators. Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Morel et al 2 On the other hand, significant efforts have been made to optimize the electrical circuits for VEHs with the goal of maximizing harvested power and bandwidth 12 . Initially, the standard energy harvesting (SEH) circuit, comprising a full-diode bridge followed by a DC-DC converter, was studied and optimized as a straightforward approach to adapt conventional power electronics systems for vibration energy harvesting 13, 14 . To further increase the extracted power, researchers have proposed a range of nonlinear circuits that outperform SEH. Notable examples include the synchronous electrical charge extraction (SECE) circuit 15 and the synchronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI) circuit 16 . These circuits have demonstrated the capability to multiply harvested power by factors ranging from 2 to 10 compared to SEH 17 . Over the years, several improved variants, such as the double synchronized switch harvesting (DSSH) 18 , enhanced synchronized switch harvesting (ESSH) 19 , synchronized switch harvesting on capacitors (SSHC), and synchronized multiple bias-flip (SMBF) 20 circuits, have been developed and implemented. More recently, researchers have explored the potential of tunable circuits to enhance the bandwidth of linear VEHs by electrically adjusting the harvester dynamics 21, 22 . For instance, the frequency tuning SECE (FT-SECE) 23 , short-circuit SECE (SC-SECE) 24 , and phase-shifted SSHI (PS-SSHI) 25 are notable improvements of SECE and SSHI circuits that enable bandwidth enhancement of linear VEHs by a factor ranging from 2 to 6 26 . Collectively, these advancements in electrical circuits for VEHs have played a vital role in maximizing harvested power and expanding the bandwidth of linear VEHs. However, despite tremendous efforts in independently optimizing the electromechanical resonator and the electrical circuits, the majority of studies have focused on either analyzing a nonlinear electromechanical resonator connected to a simple resistance, which serves as an emulation of the electrical circuit, or investigating complex nonlinear circuits connected to a linear or standardized VEH. Only a few research works have delved into the interactions between nonlinear electromechanical resonators and nonlinear circuits. For example, Singh et al. 27 proposed a joint study and modeling of a bistable piezoelectric energy harvester (PEH) coupled with a synchronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI) circuit in 2015. Their numerical and experimental investigation demonstrated the benefits of such a combination in enhancing harvested power under broadband excitations. In 2019, Huguet et al. 28 presented an analytical and experimental study of a synchronous electrical charge extraction (SECE) circuit and a tunable SECE circuit coupled with a bistable PEH. Their work showcased improved performance compared to using a resistive load. Additionally, Wang et al. 29 proposed an analytical modeling approach in 2020 for a nonlinear monostable VEH combined with various nonlinear circuits, based on the impedance model. Although their study focused on a monostable VEH and is not directly applicable to bistable VEH, it provided
__label__energy	Electricity generation using molten salt technology Charles Osarinmwian School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical Science, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL The anodic release of carbon dioxide gas in the molten salt Hall-Héroult process can be used to power a turbine for electricity generation. The application of this new concept in molten salt reprocessing in the nuclear industry is considered because it could facilitate the suitability of carbon dioxide cycles to certain types of nuclear reactor. The theoretical power of 27.8 MW generated by a molten salt Hall-Héroult reactor is comparable with a next-generation biomass plant that source s low-grade wood fuel to generate renewable heat and p ower using CHP steam turbine technology. Power generation The concept of generating electricity from molten salt processes will lead to the utiliz ation of carbon dioxide cycles in these processes . For nuclear energy to be sustainable, new large -scale fuel cycles will be required tha t may include fuel reprocessing1. In recent years, stable anodes based on highly electronically conducting alkali ruthenates have been developed for molten salt electrolytes for high temperature batteries (with proposed designs b ased on Hall-Héroult reactors )2. In the molten salt Hall-Héroult process, used for industrial scale aluminum production, the reactor typically consists of a steel shell lined with refractory alumina, carbon and a thermal insulator. Electric current enters the reactor through the carbon -based anode and flows through the alumina -containing m olten salt , to the molten aluminum deposited at the bottom of the reactor . There are two types of consumable carbon -based anode used: monolithic self-baked (Soderberg) and prebaked, where reactors containing prebaked anodes are more efficient and differ only in fabrication and stub connection3. The deposition of alumina on the bottom of the reactor, caused by poor dissolution and diffusion of alumina in the molten salt , creates alumina concentration gradients that generate non -uniform current distributions in the Hall-Héroult reactor . Installing slope d 0.57 -0.61 cm high drainable carbon cathodes coated with titanium diboride to offer wettability of aluminum could help i nhibit alumina deposition at the bottom of the reactor3,4. The dissolution and diffusion of alumina is mainly dependent on circulation patterns in the molten salt that are driven by anod ic gas bubbles5. These bubbles are evolved from anode reactions and lo wer the effective conductivity of the molten salt ; this influences the total reactor resistance and the local anodic current distribution where p olarization effects in cathodic reactions contribute much less to the anodic overvoltage6. Anod e reactions Al2O2F62 2F C CO 2 2AlF 4 4e Al2O2F42 4F C CO 2 2AlF 4 4e Cathod e reactions AlF 63 3e Al 6F AlF 4 3e Al 4F On-line monitoring of any changes in electrical conductivity induced by anodic gas bubbles could be performed non-invasively using electrical impedance tomograph y (Fig. 1). Although imaging the electrical conductivity distribution in the reactor would mark a paradigm shift in molten salt technology, several problems will need to be addressed (e .g. imaging is limited by the difficulty of quantifying the re liability of tomographic images and poor image distinguishability caused by the poor location of surrounding electrodes )7,8. It is important to note that the primary applications of electrical impedance tomograph y are in medicine and physiology9. Figure 1 : Schematic of an on-line electrical impedance tomography system for a Hall-Héroult reactor. Electrical impedance data is generated by injecting current into the Hall-Héroult reactor from a current source and the n measuring the voltage between electrodes that externally surround the reactor . Control Circuit Reconstruction Algorithms Image Display Hall-Héroult reactor To determine a theoretical power delivered by a turbine and the outlet temperature of the carbon dioxide gas stream from this turbine , an isentropic expansion of the gas strea m originating from the anode passes at 527 C and 80 bar across the turbine at 1 bar. Temperature control of the gas stream is crucial since the supercritical carbon dioxide cycle is well suited to any type of nuclear reactor with a core outlet temperature above 500 C10. The outlet temperature is determ ined from S(T1, P1) S(T2, P2) which indicates that the total entropy change of the gas stream S as a function of temperature T and pressure P (inlet: subscript 1; outlet: subscript 2) is zero. The entropy of the system is a sum of the ideal gas contribution Sig with the residual contribution Sres where the entropy change of the ideal gas is where Cp is the ideal gas specific heat capacity of carbon dioxide , A, B, D are ideal gas heat capacity coefficients (Table 1) and R is the universal gas constant . The residual entropy is computed from the Peng -Robinson equation of state: where and ω is the accentric factor (Table 1) , ρ is the density of carbon dioxide gas, Tc and Pc are the critical temperature and pressure of carbon dioxide gas respectively . Table 1: Properties of carbon dioxide Ideal gas heat capacity coefficients A 5.457; B 1.045 10 3 K 1; D 1.157 105 K2 Critical properties Accentric factor Tc 304.2 K; Pc 73.8 bar ω 0.225 In order to compute the residual entropy, a derivative with respect to temperature is taken for an expression of the residual Helmholtz free energy Ares. The residual Helmholtz free energy is computed by integrating the compressibility factor Z as follows where N is the number of moles. Combining Eqs. 2 and 6 gives The residual entropy is computed from the residual Helmholtz free energy by where Hence, the simultaneous equations are of the form: After solving Eq. 2 for the density of the inlet gas stream, Eqs. 10 and 11 are solved to give an outlet temperature of carbon dioxide gas from the turbine as 87 C. The theoretical power produced by the turbine w nM H (n is the molar flowrate of the gas stream; M is the molecu lar weight of carbon dioxide ) is
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	Graphical abstract Energy System Model New value assessment method Market Potential Method to guide energy storage innovation Highlights Review of evaluation methods for energy storage identiﬁes need for new approaches. Formulation of new market-potential method to identify value of storage. Pitfalls of cost approaches are identiﬁed in an European electricity system. Increasing storage design-freedom impacts technology value and system beneﬁt. The market-potential-method is useful for research and industry. 1arXiv:2101.10092v5 eess.SY 11 Jul 2022 Beyond cost reduction: Improving the value of energy storage in electricity systems. Maximilian Parzena,1, , Fabian Neumannb, Adriaan H. Van Der Weijdec, Daniel Friedricha, Aristides Kiprakisa aUniversity of Edinburgh, Institute for Energy Systems, EH9 3DW Edinburgh, United Kingdom bTechnische Universit at Berlin, Department of Digital Transformation in Energy Systems, 10587 Berlin, Germany cThe Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientiﬁc Research (TNO), 2595, DA, The Hague, The Netherlands Abstract From a macro-energy system perspective, an energy storage is valuable if it contributes to meeting system objectives, including increasing economic value, reliability and sustainability. In most energy systems models, reliability and sustainability are forced by constraints, and if energy demand is exogenous, this leaves cost as the main metric for economic value. Traditional ways to im- prove storage technologies are to reduce their costs; however, the cheapest energy storage is not always the most valuable in energy systems. Modern techno-economical evaluation methods try to address the cost and value situation but do not judge the compet- itiveness of multiple technologies simultaneously. This paper introduces the market potential method as a new complementary valuation method guiding innovation of multiple energy storage. The market potential method derives the value of technologies by examining common deployment signals from energy system model outputs in a structured way. We apply and compare this method to cost evaluation approaches in a renewables-based European power system model, covering diverse energy storage technologies. We ﬁnd that characteristics of high-cost hydrogen storage can be more valuable than low-cost hydrogen storage. Additionally, we show that modifying the freedom of storage sizing and component interactions can make the energy system 10 cheaper and impact the value of technologies. The results suggest looking beyond the pure cost reduction paradigm and focus on developing technologies with suitable value approaches that can lead to cheaper electricity systems in future. Keywords: Battery, Hydrogen, Energy storage, Energy system modelling, Techno-economic analysis, Technology development 1. Introduction In the face of global ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the energy transition characterised by increasing shares of wind and solar power will beneﬁt from more energy storage in the future electricity system 1 3 . How many ben- eﬁts can be delivered by energy storage depends, among oth- ers, on how future technology will be designed. Consequently, research and development (R D) must evaluate the techno- economic design of energy storage systems to be most bene- ﬁcial. A traditional technology evaluation approach is to reduce the cost of its devices 4 . For energy storage, these costs can be deﬁned as absolute costs ( e), or relative to energy ( e kWh) or power ( e kW) quantities. In particular, in the material science and chemistry literature, cost reductions of energy storage are a pivotal element, alongside maintaining other storage charac- teristics such as a su cient high e ciency, power and energy density, and safety 5, 6 . Though, what is su cient high is often unclear. Only if one energy storage outperforms the other in all characteristics it represents a superior technology; oth- erwise, more expensive energy storage with suitable technical characteristics can compete as well (as will be demonstrated in Section 4). Similar, evaluation techniques exist that aim to max- imise the proﬁt, however, these are mostly suitable to evaluate Corresponding author. Email address: max.parzen ed.ac.uk (Maximilian Parzen )single projects (see review in Section 2). Fortunately, material science literature has recognised one of the key challenges that energy storage depends on di erent applications and the inter- action with the energy system 7 . Alternative technology evaluation approaches use energy system models. These tools describe energy systems mathe- matically and capture system-values arising from storage inter- actions with the wider energy system (see Section 2 for more details). Some studies applying energy system models focus on storage technology evaluation and guidance. For instance, 8 explores the design spaces for long-duration energy stor- age, 2, 3, 9 explore the system-value of generic storage tech- nologies and 10 explores technology speciﬁc system-values of liquid-air energy storage and pumped-thermal electricity stor- age. A limitation of these studies is that counterfactual scenar- ios constrain this analysis type to single generic or rigid storage examples making the evaluation results questionable. This study introduces as technology evaluation approach the market potential method which can be described as systematic deployment assessment. Di erent to classical market poten- tials that are derived from energy system models which quantify mainly system e ects 11 , we focus on the systematic assess- ment of market potentials to evaluate energy storage technolo- gies (see Section 3.1). This approach overcomes the previously described limitations and simultaneously analyses multiple and more-ﬂexibly sized energy storage. As we will see later in Sec- tion 4, reﬂecting competitive situations and unique constraint Preprint submitted to arXiv:2101.10092 eess.SY July 12, 2022 demand and supply mismatches in macro-energy systems are important factors that can a ect the system-value of energy storage. The contribution of this paper to existing literature is as fol- lows: We review and discuss techno-economic approaches that are currently used to evaluate and compare energy stor- age technology in Section 2. We include cost, proﬁt and system-values analysis. We show that current cost metrics can be misleading for technology design decisions. Section 4.2 and 4.3 show that a high levelised cost of storage (LCOS) hydrogen storage can be equally or even more valuable than a low LCOS one from the system perspective. We draw this conclu- sion by observing the deployment of low and high LCOS hydrogen storage systems in a least-cost power system in- vestment planning model. We extend system-value
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	1 Data-Driven Secondary Control of Distributed Energy Resources Madi Zholbaryssov and Alejandro D. Dom ınguez-Garc ıa,Senior Member, IEEE Abstract In this paper, we present a data-driven secondary controller for regulating to some desired values several variables of interest in a power system, namely, electrical frequency, voltage magnitudes at critical buses, and active power ﬂows through critical lines. The power generation system is based on distributed energy resources (DERs) interfaced with either grid-forming (GFM) or grid-following (GFL) inverters. The secondary controller is based on online feedback optimization leveraging the learned sensitivities of the changes in the system frequency, voltage magnitudes at critical buses, and active power ﬂows through critical lines to the changes in inverter active and reactive power setpoints. To learn the sensitivities accurately from data, the feedback optimization has a built-in mechanism for keeping the secondary control inputs persistently exciting without degrading its performance. The feedback optimization also utilizes the learned power-voltage characteristics of photovoltaic (PV) arrays to compute DC-link voltage setpoints so as to allow the PV arrays to track the power setpoints. To learn the power-voltage characteristics, we separately execute a data-driven approach that ﬁts a concave polynomial to the collected power-voltage measurements by solving a sum-of-squares (SoS) optimization. We showcase the secondary controller using the modiﬁed IEEE- 14bus test system, in which conventional energy sources are replaced with inverter-interfaced DERs. I. I NTRODUCTION With the increased installation of smart meters and other measurement devices in power distribution systems, there is a growing impetus for designing cost-effective and reliable control methods that harness the full potential of the data gathered by such measurement devices. In particular, data-driven approaches can help address the problem of integration of intermittent renewable energy sources (RESs) into power grids 1 . To achieve the ultimate goal of replacing The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA. Email: fzholbar1, aledan g ILLINOIS.EDU.arXiv:2102.01797v1 eess.SY 2 Feb 2021 2 conventional fossil fuel-based energy sources with RESs, intermittency of their power output must be considered in the control system design, e.g., by endowing RESs with fast frequency and voltage regulation capabilities. Availability of data and recent advances in the area of data- driven decision-making (see, e.g, 2 ) offer us new opportunities and tools for dealing with uncertainty associated with the power produced by RESs. Different data-driven techniques for power systems control and operation have recently been developed in the literature (see, e.g., 3 11 ). A number of works (see, e.g., 5 , 9 ) proposed data-driven controllers that solve some underlying optimization problem, using measurements to perform either system identiﬁcation or controller synthesis directly without system identiﬁcation. The authors of 3 propose a method to compute linear sensitivity distribution factors in near real- time, which was utilized in 4 to perform a real-time security-constrained economic dispatch. The authors of 5 propose a data-driven approach for frequency control of power systems with variable inertia, which is based on designing a static feedback gain from the datasets generated by the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) for different modes, where each mode depends on the amount of inertia present in the system. The authors of 6 propose a data-driven approach for regulating the active power exchange between a power distribution system and the bulk grid to which it is interconnected, which uses the learned sensitivities; loss of the persistent excitation in the DER power setpoints is prevented by adding a noise sampled from the Bernoulli distribution. The authors of 8 propose a data-driven approach for voltage regulation in radial power distribution systems based on the estimated linear branch ﬂow model; however, the approach requires the system to be fully observable, i.e., each bus must be equipped with a meter that provides voltage and power injection measurements. The authors of 9 propose a data-driven H2optimization to design a non-droop-based controller for achieving the standard primary and secondary control objectives, which directly uses measurements for controller synthesis, thereby bypassing the need for system identiﬁcation. Another body of works (see, e.g., 10 , 11 ) utilized emerging machine learning techniques, e.g., deep learning, deep reinforcement learning, to make control decisions based on deep neural networks that replace uncertain power system models; however, training deep neural networks requires large volumes of data. In this paper, we propose a data-driven secondary controller for an inverter-based power system, the objective of which is to regulate to some desired values several variables of interest, namely, the electrical frequency across the system, voltage magnitudes at critical buses, and active power ﬂows through critical lines. The design of the secondary controller is based on online 3 feedback optimization that makes use of learned sensitivities of changes in the variables to be regulated to changes in the control inputs, comprising the active and reactive power setpoints of the inverters. These sensitivities are estimated recursively using real-time measurements. One of the main challenges in designing such controller lies in maintaining persistent excitation of the control inputs and preventing the loss of identiﬁability of the sensitivities due to feedback control. A common strategy to maintain the excitation is to add a random signal 12 . In this work, we argue that there is a better approach that relies on a certain mechanism built into the feedback optimization that adds a noise less detrimental to the control objectives only when necessary, and exploits the natural excitation of the output error due to, e.g., load ﬂuctuations. An additional feature of the secondary controller is to enable PV arrays to provide regulation services. One of the challenges here is to compute the power setpoints that are trackable by the PV arrays given the ﬂuctuations in their power-voltage characteristics due to the changes in solar irradiance. In this work, we attempt to integrate the learned power-voltage characteristics of the PV arrays into the proposed feedback optimization, and compute the DC-link voltage setpoints in addition to the power setpoints. In other words, the feedback optimization combines the standard secondary control objectives
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Wind Energy Conversion System a Laboratory Setup Cristian VASAR , Octavian PROSTEAN , Ioan FILIP , Iosif SZEIDERT Politehnica University of Timisoara, Department of Automation and Applied Informatics, Timisoara, Rom ania cristian.vasar aut.upt.ro Abstract This paper presents a laboratory setup usable for the design and testing of a Wind Energy Conversion System respectively their control solutions. The stand can be used for research or in the engineering educational syst em offering the possibility of studying the behavior o f wind energy conversion systems, including testing of som e adequate control techniques, allowing the transitio n from simple simulations on the computer to practical fun ctional tests, much closer to the reality of the site. The stand architecture is based on a hardware platform integr ating electrical machines, control equipment, power devic es, sensors, computing systems and appropriate software , all allowing one flexible configuration to test a multi tude of scenarios specific to the wind energy domain. The w ind turbine is emulated using an asynchronous motor wit h direct torque control based on rotating speed measu rement. The controlled torque is applied to a synchronous ge nerator and the output power is injected into the grid. I. INTRODUCTION In the present days it can be noticed a significant interest of both industrial and scientific communit ies in developing the green technologies in general, and renewable energy in particular, in order to contrib ute to a sustainable development. The usage of renewable ene rgy was limited by insufficient knowledge that allows e fficient harvesting and storing of clean energy. Thus there is an important need of education for sustainable develop ment with a transdisciplinary vision integrating technic al, economic, social and environmental aspects recogniz ing their interlinkages. Nowadays, the main idea of operating wind aggregate s is to maximize the harvested energy during a specif ic time period. There are considered maximum power point tracking techniques. In this order of idea, to achi eve the functioning at a maximum power point, the tip-speed ratio must be kept at an optimal imposed value regardless of the wind gusts 1 . A major role in the wind aggregates behavior is played by the used control structures a nd strategies. The main controlled variables are repre sented by the power, speed and torque 2 . In order to properly analyze wind energy conversion systems (wind turbines) there are usually used real time emulators, for cost reduction. Testing a wind turbi ne in a wind tunnel can be an expensive solution. Thus, an emulator can reproduce the behavior of a real wind turbine in different functioning regimes. The static and dynamic characteristics of a wind tu rbine must be similar enough to the ones of the real wind turbine. The main advantage of a emulator system is that the system can be easily software reconfigured 3 . The testing of the electrical generator also can be per formed by using a wind turbine emulator, in different regimes , such as grid of standalone operating regimes 4 . Power electronics curriculum is an important part o f a modern power engineering education, covering variou s areas as renewable energy, variable-speed drives, e lectric vehicles, robotics, interfacing energy sources with the grid, flexible transmission lines, and many other applications 5 . Usually the theoretical concepts are presented via a lecture based course. However the m ethod for providing engineers with practical experience i n energy conversion systems varies from one education al or research institution to another, a wide area of exp erimental laboratory setups being reported in the scientific literature as presented in 6 7 8 9 10 and 11 . II. GENERAL STRUCTURE OF THE WECS The kinetic energy available in the wind can be converted in mechanical energy that can be used dir ectly to power various machinery (as grain mill or water pumps) or can be converted into electrical energy u sing wind turbines coupled with electric generators. Win d energy conversion has become a reliable and competi tive means for electric power generation, the life span of modern wind turbines being around 20-25 years, whic h is comparable to many other conventional power generat ion technologies. Generally, the availability of wind energy supply cannot be controlled like energy conversion from fo ssil sources 12 . Wind energy has a stochastic fluctuat ing behavior, being important to consider operation in transient non-stationary wind conditions 13 . The major components of a typical wind energy conversion system, as depicted in Figure 1, include a wind turbine, an electric generator, interconnection int erfaces and control systems. In certain application there i s also a gearbox, in order to adapt the wind turbine rotatio n speed to generator characteristic for optimizing the harv ested energy. The wind turbine is the element that captures the w ind energy and converts into mechanical rotation, provi ding torque, rotation speed and mechanical power to elec tric generator. The electric generators convert mechanic al power into electric power. Currently, for wind ener gy conversion systems there are used synchronous generators, permanent magnet synchronous generators , and induction generators, including the squirrel-ca ge type and wound rotor type. For small to medium power win d turbines, permanent magnet generators and squirrel- cage Figure 2. WECS laboratory setup Figure 1. WECS general structure Figure 3. Asynchronous motor connected to permanent magnet synchronous generator induction generators are often used because of thei r reliability and cost advantages. Induction generators, permanent magnet synchronous generators, and wound field synchronous generators are currently used in various high power wind turbines. Power electronic converters are used as interconnection equipment in order to achieve power control, soft s tart, and interconnection functions. Most modern turbine inverters are forced commutated PWM inverters to provide a fixed voltage and fixed frequency output with a high power quality. The load is a very important e lement, thus there are two important scenarios regarding th e consumer type that determine the power electronic converter structure and control strategy: insulated consumers and
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	MOLECULAR DYNAMICS CHARACTERIZATION OF THE INTERFACIAL STRUCTURE AND FORCES OF THE METHANE -ETHANE S IIGAS HYDRATE INTERFACE THIS WORK HAS BEEN SUBMITTED TO BE PEER REVIEWED . ONCE THE REVIEW PROCESS IS COMPLETE ,THE DOI OF THE REVISED AND PUBLISHED VERSION WILL BE ADDED . THIS AUTHOR S VERSION IS SHARED THROUGH A CC BY-NC-ND LICENSE . Samuel Mathews, André Guerra, Phillip Servio, Alejandro Rey Department of Chemical Engineering McGill University Montreal, Quebec, Canada ABSTRACT The nucleation of gas hydrates is of great interest in flow assurance, global energy demand, and carbon capture and storage. A complex molecular understanding is critical to control hydrate nucleation and growth in the context of potential applications. Molecular dynamics is employed in this work combined with the mechanical definition of surface tension to assess the surface stresses that control some of the behavior at the interface. Ensuring careful sampling and simulation behavior, this work extracts meaningful results from molecular properties. We characterize the interfacial tension for sII methane ethane hydrate and gas mixtures for different temperatures and pressures. We find that the surface tension trends positively with temperature in a balance of water-solid and water-gas interactions. The molecular dipole shows the complexities of water molecule behavior in small, compressed pre-melting layer that emerges as a quasi-liquid. These behaviors contribute to the developing knowledge base surrounding practical applications of this interface. Keywords gas hydrates clathrates interfacial tension interfaces lattice dipole molecular dynamicsarXiv:2405.05454v1 physics.app-ph 8 May 2024 PREPRINT 1 Introduction Gas hydrates are clathrates where a backbone composed of water encloses gaseous molecules. The water structure retains its integrity through hydrogen bonding and guest-host interactions between the gas and water Carroll . Formed at low temperatures and high pressures, gas hydrates are commonly found in petroleum extraction and transportation industries Carroll . These structures are presently studied in the context of methane extraction, desalination, flue gas capture, natural gas and hydrogen containment, carbon capture and storage technologies, and planetary ices Koh et al. . With these technologies in mind, the need for critical information on the formation and dissociation of gas hydrates is highlighted. The temperature, pressure, and guest identity are the main considerations governing hydrate formation, nucleation rate, growth rate, formation conditions, and morphology Koh et al. . The three main structures are composed of combinations of large and small cages, with all three sharing a common pentagonal dodecahedron ( 512) cage. The sI unit cell is cubic and composed of 512and51262cages, and is formed by small gaseous molecules such as carbon dioxide, methane, and ethane. The sII unit cell is also cubic and composed of 512and51264cages, and is formed by propane, iso-butane, and natural gas mixtures. The sH unit cell is hexagonal and composed of 512,435663cages, and is formed by different combinations of large and small guests, such as methane and neohexene. Because natural gas is composed mainly of methane and ethane, the most common gas hydrate formed in flow assurance situations is the sII structure Carroll . Considering the sII structure carefully is critical because at lower temperatures, only a small amount of ethane is required to favor it over the sI structure - at 273.15 Kelvin, some predictions show only 0.3 mole percent of ethane is required to stabilize sII. Therefore, many hydrates that are believed to be sI may actually be sII hydrates. There still exist many questions and unknowns on how gas hydrates form, what substances promote or inhibit their formation, what additives are best suited to induce their dissociation, and what exactly is happening at a molecular level during these processes. Hydrates form and grow through various pathways, including as multiple crystals in agitated systems, as single crystals, and as films. Typically, the nucleation starts at the gas water interfaces and continue along the surface at a molecular scale, proving difficult to observe experimentally Carroll . As the growth starts and continues, various behaviors are seen, including dendritic growth, shell formation, and other nanoscale structural dynamics Mirzaeifard et al., a,b . These dictate the ideal location and pathway for gas hydrate formation, highlighting the need for accurate characterization of the molecular behaviors. The molecular behaviors at the interface are key features in area that are concerned with nucleation, phase transitions, solubilization of fluids, the design of surface-controlled materials such as soaps and adhesives, and the study complex hydrogen bonding systems in cell biology Carroll . The main drivers of the formation mechanisms are the driving forces and interfacial energy, but thorough atomic characterization of the processes remains incomplete Blas et al. . The speed and size of the dynamics of systems at this scale give rise to challenges that can restrict experimental methods. For example, in the study of protein hydration, traditional structural description methods are not suitable at the interface due to breaking of the translational and rotational symmetry preservation Shi . 2 PREPRINT Therefore, the use of computational materials science techniques such as molecular dynamics (MD) have given researchers opportunities to glimpse into the nucleation process and understand the molecular behaviors Mirzaeifard et al., c . The motivation of this computational work is to qualify the interfacial tension of methane-ethane sII gas hydrates in the presence of natural gas and reveal the important structures and physics in these systems. This type of vapor solid system has been studied for other structures in the context of characterizing nanobubbles and interfacial gas enrichment. The behavior of this layer is critical to the bubble s stability and is responsible for many phenomena in atmospheric chemistry, the motion of glaciers, and even the microstructure of snow Koh et al., Guerra et al., a . The organization of this paper is as follows. In the methodology, the general computational details will be presented, followed by a description of the MD and numerical techniques used to calculate the various systems and surface properties. Then, the results are presented, including experimental and theoretical data for validation and discussion of the results. We calculate and analyze the surface tension of the hydrate-gas system, characterize the
__label__energy	Energy Storage as Public Asset Jiasheng Zhang, Nan Gu, and Chenye Wu Abstract Energy storage has exhibited great potential in providing exibility in power system to meet critical peak demand and thus reduce the overall genera- tion cost, which in turn stabilizes the electricity prices. In this work, we exploit the opportunities for the independent system operator (ISO) to in- vest and manage storage as public asset, which could systematically provide bene ts to the public. Assuming a quadratic generation cost structure, we apply parametric analysis to investigate the ISO s problem of economic dis- patch, given variant quantities of storage investment. This investment is bene cial to users on expectation. However, it may not necessarily bene t everyone. We adopt the notion of marginal system cost impact (MCI) to measure each user s welfare and show its relationship with the conventional locational marginal price. We nd interesting convergent characteristics for MCI. Furthermore, we perform k-means clustering to classify users for ef- fective user pro ling and conduct numerical studies on both prototype and IEEE test systems to verify our theoretical conclusions. Keywords: Energy Storage, Optimization, Parametric Analysis, Locational Marginal Price, Power Networks, Electricity Market 1. Introduction One of the key bottlenecks in improving the e ectiveness of electricity sectors is the limited exibility in the power system, which leads to the limited uidity in the market. Fortunately, over the past few decades, technological improvements together with the scale of economy have signi cantly reduced the cost of various types of storage systems, and this trend is projected to continue in next years (as shown in Figure 1). The storage system, if widely deployed, can provide the urgently needed exibility to the power system, which will dramatically relieve the pressure in electricity market design. For example, it can relieve the critical peak in the system 1 , and Preprint submitted to ACM e-Energy 2020 May 5, 2020arXiv:2005.01402v1 eess.SY 4 May 2020 Figure 1: Projected Diminishing Marginal Costs for Variant Storage Technologies 3 . mitigate too much uncertainties brought by the renewables 2 . These and other services that storage system provides to the grid can bene t both the system operator (the system as a whole) as well as individual consumers. While most researches focus on incentivizing individual storage owners to provide services to the grid, we consider an alternative to view the storage as public asset. In essence, widely deployed storage system, just as most publicly-owned infrastructures in the grid, requires huge investment, yet it can generate comparable economic value with potential long-term returns. However, the large-scale deployment of storage could pose new challenges to the electricity market design. The major di culty is exactly due to the large- scale deployment. In this case, storage systems can no longer be viewed as price-takers and will have a major impact on the current locational marginal price (LMP) scheme. At rst glance, one may believe the storage system could help reduce the electricity bills for all users. This intuition is wrong. The truth is that the storage system could only help reduce the average electricity price over time and across all the locations. This smoothing e ect will of course bene t some market participants but make other participants 2 worse-o . In this paper, we exploit how the integration of storage system will change the de nition of conventional LMP, which serves as the basis for us to understand users in terms of their potential bene ts. This also allows us to conduct k-means clustering to better distinguish heterogeneous users in the new market conditions. Moreover, we characterize the smoothing e ect rigorously by examining the global convergence of the LMP scheme as storage capacity increases. We could in turn reason the dynamics of individual electricity bills as the total storage capacity in the grid increases. We respectively highlight the impacts of publicly owned storage in two models: electricity pool model and network constrained model. The results of the former case can be applied in the micro- grid scenario and the latter emphasizes the e ects of grid interchanges. 1.1. Related Works Our work roots in two research lines: the electricity storage control frame- work design and the pricing mechanism investigation in electricity market. While storage control framework design has been well investigated, most researches either focus on individually owned storage control policy design (e.g., to conduct arbitrage against Time-of-Use (ToU) prices, or real time prices) or consider a central control framework in various electricity operation processes. For example, Tang et al. discuss the dispatch game between independent system operator (ISO) and generator-owned storage in 4 . Bose et al. show the variability and the locational marginal value of generator- owned energy storage in 5 . Mohsenian-Rad et al. propose a framework to coordinate the investor-owned storage facilities in power system in 6 . Cui et al. further the research by considering wind power integration in 7 . In 8 , Lakshminarayana et al. devise an operation schedule to centrally coordinate multiple storage devices. Qin et al. design an algorithm to use storage to mitigate the uncertainties brought by renewables in 9 . Grillo et al. employ a Markov decision process to determine the optimal storage scheduling policy with time-varying renewable generation in 10 . Wang et al.propose a dynamic programming algorithm for storage users arbitrage scheme against multi-peaked ToU pricing in 11 . Xu et al. present an optimal look-ahead storage control policy for arbitrage based on Lagrangian multipliers in 12 . Di erent from this line of research, we consider the storage system as public asset and examine both its value to the system operator and its bene t to individual market participants (through LMP analysis). Speci cally, we use parametric analysis to exploit the value of storage. This 3 technique has been utilized to understand the relationship between ramping capacities and overall generation cost in 13 . Parametric convex quadratic optimization is discussed in detail in 14 , 15 . The pricing mechanism for the electricity sector
__label__energy	Exploiting Vulnerabilities of Load Forecasting Through Adversarial Attacks Yize Chen Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Washington Seattle, WA yizechen uw.eduYushi Tan Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Washington Seattle, WA ystan uw.eduBaosen Zhang Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Washington Seattle, WA zhangbao uw.edu ABSTRACT Load forecasting plays a critical role in the operation and planning of power systems. By using input features such as historical loads and weather forecasts, system operators and utilities build forecast models to guide decision making in commitment and dispatch. As the forecasting techniques becomes more sophisticated, however, they also become more vulnerable to cybersecurity threats. In this paper, we study the vulnerability of a class of load forecasting al- gorithms and analyze the potential impact on the power system operations, such as load shedding and increased dispatch costs. Specifically, we propose data injection attack algorithms that re- quire minimal assumptions on the ability of the adversary. The attacker does not need to have knowledge about the load forecast- ing model or the underlying power system. Surprisingly, our results indicate that standard load forecasting algorithms are quite vulner- able to the designed black-box attacks. By only injecting malicious data in temperature from online weather forecast APIs, an attacker could manipulate load forecasts in arbitrary directions and cause significant and targeted damages to system operations. CCS CONCEPTS Computer systems organization Embedded and cyber-physical systems ; Security and privacy Systems security ; Machine learning Machine learning approaches ; KEYWORDS Adversarial Attacks, Cyber-Physical Security, Load Forecast, Ma- chine Learning, Unit Commitment, Economic Dispatch ACM Reference Format: Yize Chen, Yushi Tan, and Baosen Zhang. 2019. Exploiting Vulnerabilities of Load Forecasting Through Adversarial Attacks. In Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Future Energy Systems (e-Energy 19). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 11 pages. https: doi.org 10.1145 nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 INTRODUCTION Load forecasting is a fundamental step in power system planning and operations. It is used to inform system operators the future load profiles, and serves as the basis of decision-making problems such as unit commitment, reserve management, economic dispatch and maintenance scheduling 14 . Consequently, the accuracy of forecasted loads directly impact the cost and reliability of system operations 16 . With a growing penetration of new technologies e-Energy 19, June 2019, Phoenix, AZ, United States 2019. ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x YY MM. . . 15.00 https: doi.org 10.1145 nnnnnnn.nnnnnnninto the demand side, the utilities and system operators need to place more importance on both accurate and robust forecasts. For years, the holy grail in short-term load forecasting has been toimprove the forecast accuracy , which has been vigorously pur- sued by the research community. The variations in load are driven by many different factors, including temperature, weather, tem- poral and seasonal effects (e.g., weekday vs. weekend) and other socioeconomic factors. All of these factors influence the load in nonlinear and complex ways. Over the past decades, a myriad of load forecasting algorithms have been proposed and adopted in practice. See, for example, 7, 13, 14 and the references within. For simplicity, in this paper, we restrict the inputs of the algo- rithms to be the historical load data, time indicators and temper- ature information. These algorithms can be thought of as finding a mapping between the (high dimensional) input features to the forecasted time series of load values. Statistical and machine learn- ing techniques, such as support vector regression 6 , ARIMA 12 and neural networks 8,15 have been applied to short term load forecasting and are well adopted in practice. The recent advances in deep learning opened the door to using more input features and deeper model architectures to further improve load forecasting accu- racy and provided some of the best performances to date 20,32,38 . Attacker Historical Load 05 10 15 20 25 Hour650070007500800085009000 Load(MW)Weather Forecasts Adversarial Weather Data 05 10 15 20 25Hour22.52323.52424.52525.52626.52727.5Temperature (F) Load Forecasting Model Data Injection Attack 2468 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 246500700075008000850090009500 HourLoad(MW)? ?System Operations Unit Commitment; Economic Dispatch ... ... Normal Operation Attacks Operation Figure 1: The schematic of our proposed attacks on load forecasting algorithms along with the threats over power system operations. Without knowledge about the forecast model s parameters, the attacker injects designed small, un- detectable data perturbations into weather forecasts to in- duce abnormal system operations. As the forecasting methods become more complex and accurate, they are also more susceptible to cybersecurity threats. In this pa- per, we look into the data vulnerabilities of such methods, where an attacker adversarially injects false data into the input featuresarXiv:1904.06606v1 cs.SY 13 Apr 2019 e-Energy 19, June 2019, Phoenix, AZ, United States Yize Chen, Yushi Tan, and Baosen Zhang of forecasting algorithms. Specifically, we investigate false data injection attacks of the temperature data. It is an important input to load forecasting algorithms and is mostly obtained from exter- nal services APIs, therefore providing an easier avenue for data perturbations and attack injections. The potential damage of these types of attacks can be significant, leading to increases in system operation costs and maybe even more catastrophic events such as load shedding. In Figure 1, we show the schematic of threats and proposed attacks to systems. In this paper, we take the perspective of an attacker and develop attack strategies on load forecasting algorithms, and conduct dam- age analysis of the proposed attacks. We take a restrictive setting of both the attacker s knowledge and capabilities , where the attacker does not know any parameter of the targeted load fore- casting algorithms, and could only inject perturbations into input temperatures under constraints to avoid detection. Under this setup, we develop two simple data-driven attack strategies for finding the injected perturbations onto the origi- nal temperature data. Surprisingly, we find the proposed attacks significantly degrade the performance of a class of (accurate) load forecasting algorithms. With only few degrees of perturbations injected into input temperatures, the load forecasting algorithm s output deviates drastically from original values. We also assess the damages brought by such model vulnerabilities in power system operations.
__label__energy	1 Multi-Objective Transmission Expansion: An Offshore Wind Power Integration Case Study Saroj Khanal, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Christoph Graf, Zhirui Liang, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Yury Dvorkin, Member, IEEE, and Burc in Unel Abstract Despite ambitious offshore wind targets in the U.S. and globally, offshore grid planning guidance remains notably scarce, contrasting with well-established frameworks for onshore grids. This gap, alongside the increasing penetration of offshore wind and other clean-energy resources in onshore grids, highlights the urgent need for a coordinated planning framework. Our paper describes a multi-objective, multistage generation, storage and transmission expansion planning model to facilitate efficient and resilient large-scale adoption of offshore wind power. Recognizing regulatory emphasis and, in some cases, requirements to consider externalities, this model explicitly accounts for negative externalities: greenhouse gas emissions and local emission-induced air pollution. Utilizing an 8-zone ISO- NE test system and a 9-zone PJM test system, we explore grid expansion sensitivities such as impacts of optimizing Points of Interconnection (POIs) versus fixed POIs, negative externalities, and consideration of extreme operational scenarios resulting from offshore wind integration. Our results indicate that accounting for negative externalities necessitates greater upfront investment in clean generation and storage (balanced by lower expected operational costs). Optimizing POIs could significantly reshape offshore topology or POIs, and lower total cost. Finally, ac- counting for extreme operational scenarios typically results in greater operational costs and sometimes may alter onshore line investment. Index Terms Offshore wind integration, transmission expan- sion, externalities, resiliency. NOMENCLATURE Indices and Sets y Y Years over the planning horizon. e E Representative days or scenarios. h H Hours on a representative day. s S Nodes or zones. S1 S0Onshore Offshore nodes. i G Generators. GD GIDispatchable Intermittent (non-dispatchable) gen- erators. GN GENew Existing generators. k K Generation technology types. l L Transmission lines. LAC LDCAC DC transmission lines. S. Khanal and Z. Liang are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA (e-mail: skhanal8 jhu.edu, zliang31 jhu.edu) Y . Dvorkin is with the Departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering Department and Civil and Systems Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA (e-mail: ydvorki1 jhu.edu) C. Graf and B. Unel are with the Institute for Policy Integrity, New York University School of Law, New York, NY 10012 USA (e-mail: christoph.graf nyu.edu, burcin.unel nyu.edu) The authors thank Anita and Josh Bekenstein for their support of this work. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions expressed here are those of the individual authors. ( Corresponding author : S. Khanal) Manuscript received November 17, 2023; revised March 1, 2024; accepted 2 April 2024.LN LENew Existing transmission lines. L1 L0Onshore Offshore transmission lines. f(l) t(l) Indices of sending receiving nodes line l. c C Line types. b BdFlexible demand block. x X Externalities. j J Regions for policy constraints. Parameters ωECAggregate weighting parameter of discounted monetized externality costs. N( )Useful life of asset ( )in years. r Discount rate. GCk Cost per unit capacity of a generation technology typek. LCc Cost per unit capacity-length of capacity of a transmission line of type c. SCpCost per unit power capacity of energy storage. SCeCost per unit energy capacity of battery storage. τ Number of days in a year. ωe Weight of representative days. RPS j Renewable Portfolio Standard in region j PEN Policy mandate non-compliance penalty. PEN Under-generation penalty. PEN Over-generation penalty. FCi Fixed annual operational cost per unit capacity of generator i. VCi Variable operations cost of generator i. WPb Willingness to pay for demand block b. CEi,x Damage costs caused by externality xper unit energy production by generator i. Pg i Pg i Minimum Maximum power limits of generator i. RRi Ramp rate of generator i. h Temporal resolution of model. δh Duration (fraction of h) within which reserves should be supplied. Mi,s,k Mapping of generator i, of type k, to node s. Mi,s Mapping generator ito node s. Ml,s Mapping line lto node s. Ml,c Mapping line lto type c. Mj,s Mapping region jto node s. M0 s,y Mapping offshore node sto online year y. ϕ Fraction of flexible load relative to the total load. α Acceptable fraction of renewable curtailment out of total renewable generation. Dy,s,e,h Forecasted load in year y, at node s, on repre- sentative day e, during hour h. ηs,ch ηs,disCharging Discharging efficiency of energy stor- age resources.arXiv:2311.09563v3 eess.SY 21 Apr 2024 2 DoDsAllowable depth of discharge of energy storage resources. κsAnnual degradation factor of energy storage. HsEnergy storage duration. Fl,c Flow limit (capacity) of transmission line lof typec. Bl Susceptance of line l. M Large positive number. R y,s,e,h Operating reserve requirement in year y, at node s, on representative day e, during hour h. Binary variables il l,c,y Investment (or construction start) of line l, of type cin year y. zl l,c,y Availability of line l, of type cin year y. Continuous variables OC( ) y Discounted annual operational cost of asset ( )in yeary. IC( ) y Discounted annual investment cost of asset ( )in yeary. ECy Discounted annual damage costs caused by ex- ternalities in year y. Pg y,s,kNew generation capacity in year yatsof type k. pg y,i,e,hTotal generation of generator iin year y, on representative day e, during hour h. ps,ch dis y,s,e,hCharging discharging power of energy storage resources at sin year y, on representative day e, during hour h. rg y,i,e,hReserve provided by generator iin year y, on representative day e, during hour h. rs y,s,e,h Reserve provided by energy storage in year y, at node s, on representative day e, during hour h. ψ y,s,e,hRenewable energy curtailment in year y, at node s, on representative day e, during hour h. ψ y,s,e,hUnserved load in year y, at node s, on represen- tative day e, during hour h. dy,s,e,h Flexible demand in year y, at node s, on repre- sentative day e, during hour h(free variable). ρ y,j Policy target noncompliance in year yin region j. fy,l,e,h Power flow through line lin year y, on represen- tative day e, during hour h. θy,s,e,h V
__label__energy	1 Solar Energy Generation in Three Dimensions Marco Bernardi1, Nicola Ferralis1, Jin H. Wan2, Rachelle Villalon3, Jeffrey C. Grossman1 1 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, 2 Department of Mathematics, 3 Department of Architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 e-mail: jcg mit.edu We formulate, solve computationally and study experimentally the problem of collecting solar energy in three dimensions.1 5 We demonstrate that absorbers and reflectors can be combined in the absence of sun tracking to build three-dimensional photovoltaic (3DPV) structures that can generate measured energy densities (energy per base area, kWh m2) higher by a factor of 2 20 than stationary flat PV panels, versus an increase by a factor of 1.3 1.8 achieved with a flat panel using dual-axis sun tracking.6 The increased energy density is countered by a higher solar cell area per generated energy for 3DPV compared to flat panel design (by a factor of 1.5 4 in our conditions), but accompanied by a vast range of improvements. 3DPV structures are steadier sources of solar energy generation at all latitudes: they can double the number of peak power generation hours and dramatically reduce the seasonal, latitude and weather variations of solar energy generation compared to a flat panel design. Self-supporting 3D shapes can create new schemes for PV installation and the increased energy density can facilitate the use of cheaper thin film materials in area-limited applications. Our findings suggest that 2 harnessing solar energy in three dimensions can open new avenues towards Terawatt-scale generation. MAIN TEXT Converting the abundant flow of solar power to the Earth (87 PW) into affordable electricity is an enormous challenge, limited only by human ingenuity. Photovoltaic (PV) conversion has emerged as a rapidly expanding technology capable of reaching GW-scale electric power generation with the highest power density among renewable sources of 20 40 W m2 .7,8 The main barriers to widespread adoption of PV technology include system costs (3 5 Watt-peak) of which 60 is due to installation costs,9 the limited number of peak insolation hours available in most locations (further reduced by weather), and the requirement of a minimum threshold power density for cheaper thin-film technologies to become feasible for residential or commercial rooftop installations. The main approach applied so far to alleviate these problems has been to search for lower-cost active layers with higher power conversion efficiencies. However, efficiency improvements can only partially reduce the installation costs and cannot change the pattern of solar energy generation, since these aspects are related to the PV system design. A commonly adopted design consists of flat panels arranged on a flat surface often a rooftop imposing further geometrical constraints that yields far-from-optimal coupling with the Sun s trajectory. Sun-tracking systems can extend the range of useful peak hours, but add significant costs and are not well suited for residential or commercial installations due to the use of expensive and bulky movable parts. 3 The flat design of PV systems contrasts with the three-dimensionality of sunlight collecting structures found in Nature.3,4 Two main physical reasons underlying the advantages of collecting light in 3D are the presence of multiple orientations of the absorbers that allow for the effective capture of off-peak sunlight, and the re-absorption of light reflected within the 3D structure. We recently employed computer simulations (Ref. 5) to show that 3D photovoltaic (3DPV) structures can increase the generated energy density (energy per footprint area, kWh m2) by a factor linear in the structure height, for a given day and location. Optimal shapes derived using a genetic algorithm approach include a cubic box open at the top and a cubic box with funnel-like shaped faces, both capable in principle of doubling the daily energy density.5 The higher area of PV material per unit of generated energy compared to flat panel designs is a main disadvantage of 3DPV, although this is alleviated by the fact that the module is not the main cost in PV installations at present, and the PV outlay will become increasingly dominated by non-module costs in the near future.9 Additional practical challenges include inexpensive 3D fabrication routes and optimization of the electrical connections between the cells to avoid power losses. Despite the enormous potential of macroscopic 3DPV structures, the lack of a comprehensive optimization approach and systematic study of the benefits in different seasons, locations and weather conditions, combined with the fact that the module has until only recently dominated the total cost of PV, have thus far limited the advancement of 3DPV as a groundbreaking concept and technology. Here, we demonstrate that 3DPV structures can be realized practically and can 4 dramatically improve solar energy generation: compared to a flat panel, they can nearly double the number of peak hours available for solar energy generation, provide a measured increase in the energy density by a factor of 2 20 without sun tracking with even higher figures in the case of cloudy weather, and reduce the large variability in solar energy generation with latitude and season found in non-tracking flat panels. 3DPV structures additionally enable the design of effective sunlight concentrators using fixed mirrors. We establish and implement numerically a general formalism to calculate the energy generated over a period of time, at any location on Earth, by a 3D assembly of N solar cells of arbitrary shape, orientation, conversion efficiency and optical properties (Supplementary Information). The calculations account for inter-cell shading, Air-Mass effects in the incident solar energy and angle-dependent reflection of unpolarized light.10 The Sun s trajectory is computed for the particular day and location using an algorithm developed by Reda et al.11,12 Weather is not explicitly taken into account in the simulations and unless otherwise stated all the simulated energy values in this work assume clear weather. Once the 3DPV structure (here for convenience broken down into triangles) has been defined, the generated energy can be expressed as an objective function of the cell coordinates that can be maximized using standard Monte Carlo (MC) simulated annealing and genetic algorithm (GA) optimization techniques,13 17
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__energy	1 The cc-pV5Z-F12 basis set: reaching the basis set limit in explicitly correlated calculations Kirk A. Peterson, a Manoj K. Kesharwani,b and Jan M.L. Martin b (a) Department of Chemistry, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164-4630. Email: kipeters wsu.edu FAX: 1 509 335 8867 (b) Department of Organic Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Reḥovot, Israel. Email: gershom weizmann.ac.il. FAX: 972 8 934 4142 Molecular Physics, in press. Received September 18, 2014; Accepted November 4, 2014. Nicholas C. Handy Memorial Issue. Pre-assigned DOI: 10.1080 00268976.2014.985755 ABSTRACT. We have developed and benchmarked a new extended basis set for explicitly correlated calculations, namely cc-pV5Z-F12. It is offered in two variants, cc-pV5Z-F12 and cc-pV5Z-F12(rev2), the latter of which has additional basis functions on hydrogen not present in the cc-pVnZ-F12 (n D,T,Q) sequence. A large uncontracted reference basis set is used for benchmarking. cc-pVnZ-F12 (n D 5) is shown to be a convergent hierarchy. Especially the cc-pV5Z-F12(rev2) basis set can yield the valence CCSD component of total atomization energies 2 (TAEs), without any extrapolation, to an accuracy normally associated with aug-cc-pV 5,6 Z extrapolations. SCF components are functionally at the basis set limit, while the MP2 limit can be approached to as little as 0.01 kcal mol without extrapolation. The determination of (T) appears to be the most difficult of the three components and cannot presently be accomplished without extrapolation or scaling. (T) extrapolation from cc-pV T,Q Z-F12 basis sets, combined with CCSD-F12b cc-pV5Z-F12 calculations appears to be an accurate combination for explicitly correlated thermochemistry. For accurate work on noncovalent interactions, basis set superposition error with the cc-pV5Z-F12 basis set is shown to be so small that counterpoise corrections can be neglected for all but the most exacting purposes. Table of Contents Graphic (if desired): 3 Introduction Wavefunction ab initio calculations are for the most part a two-dimensional convergence problem (the Pople diagram 1) with basis set convergence on one axis and the electron correlation method (a.k.a. n-particle treatment) on the other. For heavy elements, relativity2 becomes the third major dimension, leading to the Császár cube.3 For systems with mild nondynamical correlation, the gold standard CCSD(T)4,5 coupled cluster6 method is quite close to the full configuration interaction limit, leaving basis set convergence as the main bottleneck. With conventional one-particle basis sets, convergence is quite slow,7 9 although its comparatively slow and monotonic character naturally suggests extrapolation procedures when correlation consistent basis sets are used (e.g.,10 12). Explicitly correlated methods,13 20 in which some geminal terms that explicitly depend on the interelectronic distance are added to the 1-particle basis set, exhibit greatly accelerated basis set convergence. (Early work, including his own, has been reviewed by Handy;21 for later reviews, see Refs.22 26) A number of forays into explicitly correlated computational thermochemistry were recently made by the present authors27 30 and by others.31,32 The somewhat disappointing conclusion emerged that, while F12 methods allow one to quickly reach the general neighborhood of the basis set limit, approaching more closely in a consistent way becomes quite challenging. Specifically, while basis set convergence in pure one-particle approaches (e.g., in W4 theory,33,34 the HEAT approach,35,36 and the FPD approach30,37 40) tends to be smooth with monotonically increasing TAEs (total atomization energies), basis set convergence of coupled cluster TAEs from F12 methods can be oscillatory or even (anomalously) monotonically decreasing. 4 One reason for this problem resides in the use of basis sets not specifically optimized for explicitly correlated calculations. A team involving one of us sought to address this problem by the development of the cc-pVnZ-F12 and cc-pCVnZ-F12 basis sets41 43 (n D,T,Q), which were optimized at the MP2-F12 level in the presence of the appropriate geminal terms. These basis sets do appear to have smoother convergence behavior than orbital-optimized aug-cc-pVnZ basis sets (n D,T,Q,5,6) but obviously do not reach as far, and basis set extrapolation was still found to be necessary.44 A crude rule of thumb has emerged22 24 from practical applications, namely, that F12 calculations gain the user between two and three zetas over their conventional counterparts. If that is so, expanding the cc-pVnZ-F12 by an additional member (n 5) may bring us within subchemical accuracy of the basis set limit, and indeed altogether eliminate the need for basis set extrapolation. In the present paper, we will develop and present such a basis set for H and B Ne, and by thorough benchmarks show that it is indeed sufficiently close to the basis set limit for this purpose. Computational details Most calculations were carried out using MOLPRO 2012.145 running on the Faculty of Chemistry HPC cluster at the Weizmann Institute of Science. Some additional CCSD(F12) and open-shell atomic CCSD(F12 ) calculations were carried out using TURBOMOLE46 6.4 on the same hardware. For the cc-pVnZ-F12 correlation consistent basis sets (n D,T,Q) optimized for F12 calculations,41 we employed the auxiliary basis sets47 and CABS (complementary auxiliary basis sets)48 developed for use with them, as well as the Weigend49,50 JK-fitting basis sets which are 5 the MOLPRO default. Unless indicated otherwise, the geminal exponent values β recommended in Ref.44 (rather than those of Ref.41) were used: β 0.9 for cc-pVDZ-F12, β 1.0 for cc-pVTZ-F12, and β 1.0 for cc-pVQZ-F12. The SCF component was improved through the CABS correction . 19,51 For the REF basis sets (see below), we employed very large uncontracted auxiliary basis sets previously reported in Ref.44. For the V5Z-F12 basis set, we considered two combinations of auxiliary basis sets: the first is that used for the REF basis sets, the second is the combination of Weigend s aug-cc-pV5Z JKFIT basis set50 for the Coulomb and exchange elements with Hättig s aug-cc-pwCV5Z MP2FIT basis set52 for both the RI-MP2 parts and for the complementary auxiliary basis set (CABS). For comparison, some F12 calculations were run with ordinary aug-cc-pVnZ basis sets,53 where the JKFIT basis set50 was extended by a single even-tempered layer of diffuse functions, RI-MP2 basis set was again taken from Ref. 52 but the CABS basis sets of Yousaf and Peterson 54 were employed. Our discussion focuses
__label__energy	arXiv:1804.08209v1 cs.SY 23 Apr 20182018 IEEE International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Charlotte, USA Synthesizing Distributed Energy Resources in Microgrids with Temporal Logic Speciﬁcations Yichen Zhang , Mohammed Olama , Alexander Melin , Yaosuo Xue , Seddik Djouadi , Kevin Tomsovic Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science , University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 Email: yzhan124, mdjouadi, tomsovic utk.edu. Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831 Email: olamahussemm, melina, xuey ornl.gov ornl.gov. Abstract Grid supportive (GS) modes integrated within dis- tributed energy resources (DERs) can improve the frequency response. However, synthesis of GS modes for guaranteed per for- mance is challenging. Moreover, a tool is needed to handle so phis- ticated speciﬁcations from grid codes and protection relay s. This paper proposes a model predictive control (MPC)-based mode synthesis methodology, which can accommodate the temporal logic speciﬁcations (TLSs). The TLSs allow richer descript ions of control speciﬁcations addressing both magnitude and tim e at the same time. The proposed controller will compute a series of Boolean control signals to synthesize the GS mode of DERs by solving the MPC problem under the normal condition, where th e frequency response predicted by a reduced-order model sati sﬁes the deﬁned speciﬁcations. Once a sizable disturbance is det ected, the pre-calculated signals are applied to the DERs. The prop osed synthesis methodology is veriﬁed on the full nonlinear mode l in Simulink. A robust factor is imposed on the speciﬁcations to compensate the response mismatch between the reduce-order model and nonlinear model so that the nonlinear response satisﬁes the required TLS. I. I NTRODUCTION Microgrids have become an ideal solution for powering remote locations 1 . Such microgrids are usually fed by mixed sources of diesel generators (DGs) and distributed energy resources (DERs) to reduce the cost 1 . Most DERs are converter-interfaced and do not respond to frequency excursions in the grid. Such characteristics of DERs can severely degrade the performance of frequency response wit h increasing penetration, leading to larger rate of change of frequency and frequency excursion during the transient per iod 2 . This could lead to a potential trip of any rotating machine connected to the network, or possibly trigger unnecessary frequency relays, in which case the system has adequate capacity to attain a stable steady-state 3 . Currently, lots of grid supportive (GS) modes have been integrated into the converter active power control loops. Among all converter- interfaced DERs, the wind turbine generators (WTGs) are This manuscript has been authored by UT-Battelle, LLC, unde r contract DE-AC05-00OR22725 with the U.S. Dept. of Energy.preferred to be integrated with supportive functions due to the large amount of available kinetic energy. On the one hand, synthesis of such hybrid controllers to achieve certain system performance speciﬁcations is a chal - lenging task since most GS modes are feeding with only local information and lack of grid dynamics awareness capacity. This issue are tackled from two aspects. Refs. 3 6 employ certain simpliﬁed models to estimate the frequency dynam- ics, based on which the control are designed. Alternatively , certain pre-event simulations are carried out to determine the commitment of GS modes in 7 , 8 . On the other hand, performance speciﬁcations in most literature are only state-dependent. But the protection re plays of power system in real industry are designed based on states and dwell time simultaneously. Most of the grid codes also allow states to enter certain restricted regions, but the dw ell time should not be larger than a speciﬁed value. So, it is natu ral to seek a tool that can specify time and region requirements in control designs. The temporal logic speciﬁcations (TLSs ) allow richer descriptions of speciﬁcations including set, logic and time-related properties. For example, to guarantee the proper operation of microgrids, the speed deviation of the synchronous generator should not exceed 1.5Hz for 0.1 second 9 . The pioneering work in 10 introduces the TLSs for controller synthesis of energy storage systems, where t he frequency is requried to restore back to 60 0.2Hz within 2 seconds. In this paper, inspired by both 4 and 7 and motived by the introduction of TLSs 10 , a model predictive control (MPC)- based control synthesis methodology is proposed, which can accommodate the TLSs. The controller is conﬁgured into two levels including the scheduling level and the triggerin g level. In the scheduling level, a series of Boolean control signals are computed by solving the MPC problem, where the frequency response predicted by a reduced-order model satisﬁes the deﬁned speciﬁcations under a given worse-case contingency. In addition, the scheduling level will consta ntly re-schedule the signal based on the operating condition and varying speciﬁcations. The triggering level will measure t he frequency and detect whether a severe contingency close to the worst case is happening. Once such a contingency is detected, the scheduled signals are applied to the WTGs. The performance will be guaranteed by the scheduling level if th e analytical model can precisely estimate the system behavio r. The overall conﬁguration is analogous to the adaptive remed ial action scheme in 6 . The reminder of the paper is organized as follows. Section IIintroduces preliminary knowledge about TLSs. Section III introduces the models of microgrids with DGs and WTGs, where the analytical models are derived. Section IVintroduces the MPC-based control synthesis methodology, including th e overall conﬁguration, MPC formulation for the scheduling level, and the results with nonlinear simulation veriﬁcati ons. Conclusions and future works are discussed in Section V. II. P RELIMINARIES ON TEMPORAL LOGIC SPECIFICATION A temporal logic speciﬁcation is built by combining the atomic propositions (APs) using logical and temporal opera - tors. An AP is a statement on the system variables that is eith er true or false for some given value of the systems variables 11 . For example, the statement the grid frequency deviation should never exceed 0.5 Hz is an AP. The commonly used logical operators are conjunction ( ),
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	Performance Assessment of Linear Models of Hydropower Plants Stefano Cassano, Fabrizio Sossan PERSEE, Mines ParisTech - PSL Sophia Antipolis, France fstefano.cassano, fabrizio.sossan g mines-paristech.frChristian Landry, Christophe Nicolet Power Vision Engineering Sarl St-Sulpice, Switzerland fchristian.landry, christophe.nicolet g powervision-eng.ch Abstract This paper discusses linearized models of hy- dropower plants (HPPs). First, it reviews state-of-the-art models and discusses their non-linearities, then it proposes suitable linearization strategies for the plant head, discharge, and turbine torque. It is shown that neglecting the dependency of the hydroa- coustic resistance on the discharge leads to a linear formulation of the hydraulic circuits model. For the turbine, a numerical linearization based on a ﬁrst-order Taylor expansion is proposed. Model performance is evaluated for a medium- and a low-head HPP with a Francis and Kaplan turbine, respectively. Perspective applications of these linear models are in the context of efﬁcient model predictive control of HPPs based on convex optimization. Index Terms Hydropower plants, Linear models, Model pre- dictive control. I. I NTRODUCTION Hydropower plants (HPPs) are a key renewable generation asset, covering more than 10 of the electricity needs in Europe 1 . Meanwhile, the increasing proportion of stochastic renewable generation in the power grid causes increasing regulation duties for conventional generation assets, including HPPs. Excessive regulation duties are a concern for HPP oper- ators because they lead to increased wear and tear, ultimately shortening service life and requiring expensive maintenance. The need to counteract these effects has been very recently recognized in funded research projects (e.g., 2 ) and addressed in recent technical literature. E.g., work 3 has shown that medium-head HPPs providing ancillary services incur in larger penstock fatigue, and authors of 4 proposed a method to reduce it. As an alternative to extending regulation duties of HPPs, the use of batteries was proposed in so-called hybrid HPPs to increment the regulation capacity, e.g., 5 . Conventional HPP regulation loops include the droop gover- nors for primary frequency regulation, the speed changer for secondary frequency control, and the turbine governor. The governor parameters are typically tuned to deliver the design performance (e.g., response time and droop) while respecting the plant s static mechanical and power limits. These classical feedback control loops do not model dynamic mechanical loads explicitly, so they are unaware of possible wear and tear effects that excessive regulation causes. Modeling the This research was supported by the European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation program in the context of the Hydropower Extending Power System Flexibility project (XFLEX HYDRO, grant agreement No 857832).mechanical stress is relevant not only for wear and tear but also to design stress-informed splitting policies for the control signal in plants with multiple controllable elements, like hybrid HPPs. An alternative to classical regulation loops to develop in- formed control decisions is model predictive control (MPC), which uses models to formulate constraints explicitly, as for example done in 6 for battery systems using linear prediction models of the battery voltage. In this spirit, this paper proposes linear models of the HPP that can be implemented into an MPC problem to formulate suitable operational constraints of the plant. Two linear models are proposed: a guide vane-to- torque model (key to model the plant s power output) and a guide vane-to-head model, which is essential to characterize mechanical loads and fatigue. By virtue of their linearity, the models allow for a tractable formulation of the MPC problem through convex optimization. These models contribute to ad- vancing the state-of-the-art because typical HPP models for control applications are non-linear transfer-function models (e.g., 7 ). The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II describes HPP models, Section III describes the proposed linearization procedures, Section IV the methods for the performance evaluation, Section V presents the results and Section VI draws the main conclusions. II. M ODELLING HYDROPOWER PLANTS From a modelling perspective, HPPs feature two main components: hydraulic circuits and turbine, as described next. A. Hydraulic circuits The hydraulic circuit of an HPP consists of the low-pressure tunnel, the penstock, and, in medium- and high-head plants, surge tanks. The penstock is the key element for dynamics because it is subject to the elastic behavior of the water. Its model is described next. The model of the surge tank can be derived by applying the same equivalent circuit principles described here and is not addressed in this paper for a reason of space. The penstock is a pipe that guides water running from upstream to the hydraulic turbine. The water s potential difference between the penstock s inlet and outlet is the source for the mechanical power. The penstock is not open to the air and is subject to water pressure. For this reason, waterarXiv:2107.07895v1 eess.SY 16 Jul 2021 elasticity is accounted for in its model. Assuming that the penstock is signiﬁcantly longer than larger, it can be modeled with a one-dimensional approach using partial differential equations (PDEs), e.g., 8 . PDEs are solved numerically by discretizing the penstock (Fig. 1) into a ﬁnite number of elements,n, of lengthdx l n, wherelis the total length of the penstock. Fig. 1. Spatial discretization of a pipe of length L 8 . This model can be conveniently visualized and solved in terms of its equivalent circuit model, where each element in Fig. 1 correspond to a (nonlinear) RLC circuit. The relation- ship between the discharge Qiof each penstock element iand its headhiis: dQi dt R(Qi) L Qi 2 L hi 1 2 2 L hi (1a) dQi 1 dt R(Qi) L Qi 1 2 L hi 1 2 2 L hi 1 (1b) dhi 1 2 dt 1 C (Qi Qi 1): (1c) where the circuit parameters are R(Qi) jQij dx 2g D A2; L dx g A; C g A dx a2;(1d) with as the Darcy-Weisbach friction coefﬁcient, gaccelera- tion of gravity, Apipe cross-section, Dpipe diameter, and a the wave speed in meters per second (m s). The equivalent circuit of a 1-element penstock model is shown in Fig. 3(b) and will be discussed later in combination
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	1 Synchronous Pre-biasing of Triboelectric Nanogenerator for Enhanced Energy Extraction Madhav Pathak and Ratnesh Kumar, Fellow, IEEE This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible.Abstract Triboelectric Nanogenerator (TENG) is a class of ambient mechanical energy harvesters used to augment the battery life of electronic devices such as sensors in implantables, wearables, and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. In this work, the fundamentals of pre-biasing (pre-charging) the TENG at the start of the operation cycle to enhance the per-cycle extracted energy is presented. The energy gain is mathematically formulated, and the optimum pre-biasing voltage (equivalently charge) is derived by analyzing the energy exchange between the mechanical and the electrical domain over a periodic cycle. Further, a novel Energy Extraction Circuit (EEC) termed as Pre-biased Synchronous Charge Extraction (pSCE) is intro- duced to 1) Realize synchronous pre-biasing of TENG using the load battery itself and 2) Achieve enhanced energy extraction from TENG. Energy output per-cycle is derived analytically for the pSCE circuit and compared to the state of the art Synchronous Charge Extraction (SCE) circuit. The experimental implementation is performed for the proposed pSCE circuit that shows a 6.65 fold gain over the Full Wave Rectiﬁer (standard EEC) and 1.45 over the SCE circuit for a 5V battery load. Index Terms energy harvesting, triboelectric nanogenerator, switched circuits, pre-biasing I. I NTRODUCTION WIRELESS sensor nodes used in the Internet of Things (IoT), wearable and, implantable applications are com- monly powered by an on-board battery. Embedding an ambient energy harvester to charge the on-board battery is a green solution to prolonging the battery life 1 , and it may also help reduce the size and weight by using a lower capacity battery. Among the ambient energy sources such as solar, mechanical, chemical, and thermal 2 , mechanical sources are most readily available in the form of wind water ﬂow, machine structure vibration, human body motion, etc. 3 5 . Hence, mechanical to electrical energy transducers such as piezoelectric, electrostatic, and electromagnetic have seen signiﬁcant development efforts in the past years 6 , 7 . The piezoelectric energy harvesters have been widely used but are subject to a limited choice of materials and require complex fabrication techniques 8 . In contrast, Triboelectric Nanogenerator (TENG) has shown promising potential owing to its almost universal choice of materials and operation modes 9 . Motion transduction leads to variable output that needs rectiﬁcation to charge DC battery load, and thus, Full Wave Rectiﬁer (FWR) can be considered the simplest Energy Ex- traction Circuit (EEC) 10 . Approaches to enhance TENG s This work was supported in part by U.S. National Science Foundation under grants NSF-CCF-1331390, NSF-ECCS-1509420, NSF-PFI-1602089, and NSF-CSSI-2004766. The authors would like to thank Alex Denny of Rowe Electronics for PCB implementation of the circuits. The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011 USA (e-mail: mpathak iastate.edu; rkumar iastate.edu).energy output require improving the source to load matching. To this end, several novel EEC architectures have been pro- posed in the literature to increase the energy output beyond the FWR circuit such as 11 18 . It is shown in 11 that all these different EEC outputs are conﬁned within the cycle for maximized energy output (CMEO), where the synchronously serial switched ﬂyback converter with the rectiﬁed TENG output can achieve the CMEO irrespective of the load value 14 , 16 , 18 . This last architecture has been proposed previously in the piezoelectric context 19 22 , by the name of Synchronous Charge Extraction (SCE), which is how we also refer to it in this paper. The aforementioned EECs may be viewed as passive EECs , where no harvested energy is fed back to the TENG. In this work, we study the pre-biasing orpre-charging of TENG by feeding back some of the load battery energy to the TENG, thereby realizing an active EEC , which enables us to achieve a net output beyond the CMEO limit . Pre-biasing is accomplished by charging the TENG capacitor at the start of each half-cycle (at the minimum and maximum separation of TENG plates) by using the battery to charge the TENG capacitor (termed pre-biasing) so that it increases the force between the two plates and thereby the work done against it during separation phase by the mechanical source, causing a higher level of transduced energy and hence also a higher level of extracted energy. In contrast, during the contraction phase, when plates move in the direction of the electrostatic force, there is energy loss, and pre-biasing is used to minimize this loss to zero. Upper and optimum limits, if any, on the pre- biasing voltage for each half-cycle are derived by analyzing the interplay of mechanical motion and electrostatic forces. The concept of pSCE circuit itself was initially explored in our earlier conference paper 23 but without a detailed analysis and experimental validation. Here we present its complete mathematical working and derive the energy output per-cycle, which is then contrasted against the SCE circuit s CMEO output. Additionally, the precise conditions on the pre-biasing voltages for ensuring net beneﬁt over SCE are derived. Finally, the experimental implementation of the pSCE circuit is also presented, and its performance improvement over SCE and the standard Full Wave Rectiﬁer (FWR) circuit is experimentally validated. It is further important to note that while pSCE circuit architecture has been explored previously for piezoelectric transducers 20 , 24 , the analysis is entirely different in the case of triboelectric transducers, since it has different circuit model: For a piezoelectric transducer, capacitor appears in parallel to the source and is ﬁxed , whereas the triboelectric capacitor appears in series and is time-varying . The work reported here involves innovation to deal with the time-varyingarXiv:2105.10856v2 physics.app-ph 1 Sep 2021 2 Teflon (Dielectric)Aluminum (Electrode)Acrylic (Substrate)Surface Triboelectric Charge ( -σA) (a)VTx(t) d - (c) (b)Dielectric ( -σA) E4Substrate (Moving) E3 VT - -VOC
__label__energy	IEEE PES 53RD NORTH AMERICAN POWER SYMPOSIUM, NOVEMBER 2021 1 The Risk of Hidden Failures to the United States Electrical Grid and Potential for Mitigation Arthur K. Barnes1, Adam Mate1, and Jose E. Tabarez1 Abstract Hidden failures present a noticeable impact to the reliability of the United States electrical grid. These hazards are responsible for protective device misoperations and can cause multiple-element contingencies across nearby components, greatly increasing the likelihood of cascading events. This paper provides an in-depth overview of the causes and risks of hidden failures and discusses methods for identifying critical locations where hidden failures could pose a risk of cascading failure, with the ultimate goal being to identify efﬁcient mitigation methods that can prevent their occurrence in protective relays. Index Terms power transmission, protection, centralized pro- tection, hidden failures, adaptive protection, cascading failures. I. I NTRODUCTION Research has shown that despite the recent slowdown in electrical load growth in the North American energy system, the occurrence of large-scale blackouts has not been reduced 1 . One contributor to blackouts is the presence of hidden failures in the electrical grid that result in a single fault turning into a multi-element contingency. As described by Elizondo et al. 2 , a hidden failure is deﬁned as a relay that is misconﬁgured or faulty such that it will cause the inappropriate removal of system assets during an event (e.g., an out-of- zone fault). It can be stated that hidden failures in protective relaying present a risk of cascading failures to the entire grid. Hidden failures are considered to occur when protection activates on account of a misconﬁguration or internal failure, resulting in an inappropriate removal of system assets during an event (e.g., an out-of-zone fault) 2 , 3 . For the most part, hidden failures are synonymous with misoperations and are a consequence of biasing a protection system towards dependability (i.e., always clearing a fault on the protected element) versus security (i.e., never misoperating when a fault has not occurred on the protected element) 4 . However, the failure of local protection to operate for an in-zone fault, triggering remote backup protection to remove additional system assets, can also be considered a hidden failure 5 . Of particular concern are hidden failures that cause the loss of a set of critical assets, resulting in a severe loss of load or a cascading failure event, which in turn could lead to prolonged outages and expensive damage. While the main cause of power outages remains natural dis- asters (e.g., extreme weather, forest ﬁres, earthquakes) 1 , it Manuscript submitted: Jul. 15, 2021. Current version: Oct. 5, 2021. 1The authors are with the Advanced Network Science Initiative at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA. Email: fabarnes, amate, jtabarez g lanl.gov. LA-UR-21-26802. Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.has been demonstrated that hidden failures present a noticeable impact to the reliability of the United States electrical grid. A number of blackouts are attributed to hidden failures, including the 1977 New York blackout and the 1995 southern Idaho event (in which a line incorrectly tripped on account of a fault on a parallel line, resulting in a subsequent overload trip of a third parallel line, requiring the shed of several GW loads on account of an underfrequency event) 6 . It is important to mention that hidden failures (including those that cause cascading failures) are responsible for an estimated 10 rate of misoperations across protective device operations 7 and 70 of n 2contingencies are caused by relay misoperations 8 . Additionally, while the electrical grid was designed to be robust to n 1contingencies, hidden failures can cause multiple-element contingencies for which the risk of load loss or cascading events is much higher 5 . The contributions of this paper include the following: Sec- tion II presents a taxonomy of the causes of hidden failures, Section III describes methods for identifying critical locations where hidden failures could pose a risk of cascading failure, and Section IV describes methods for mitigation of hidden failures. Although methods in the literature exist for mitigating the impacts of cascading failures e.g., remedial action schemes 9 or the Reciprocal Altruism method 10 this paper speciﬁcally focuses on methods to reduce the likelihood of protective misoperations caused by hidden failures. II. C AUSES OF HIDDEN FAILURES There are several main causes of hidden failures: relay hard- ware failures, bad electrical connections, incorrect settings, inappropriate design or application of protective schemes, and operator errors 5 , 8 , 11 , 12 . Defects in protection systems (e.g., current transformers and voltage transformers, wiring, protective relays, communications systems, circuit breakers) can cause a misoperation during external faults, under-voltages, overloads, switching events, transformer en- ergization, or reverse power ﬂows 2 , 6 , 13 . According to Tamronglak 12 , relays that can experi- ence hidden failures include: directional comparison blocking and unblocking relays, permissive overreaching and under- reaching transfer trip relays, Zone 2 and Zone 3 distance relays, directional overcurrent ground relays, and differential relays. It is notable that many of these relays include pilot protection, a complex protection with an increased number of potential failure modes 14 , 15 . The operation of some common protection schemes and causes of hidden failure for these schemes are discussed below.arXiv:2107.03439v2 eess.SY 31 Dec 2021 IEEE PES 53RD NORTH AMERICAN POWER SYMPOSIUM, NOVEMBER 2021 2 Directional Comparison Blocking (DCB) Relays In a DCB relaying scheme, the line is protected by two directional distance relays on either end for line-line faults and directional overcurrent relays for line-ground faults 4 , 12 , 15 . There is a bidirectional channel along the line by which each relay can send a blocking signal preventing the other from operating. An important feature of this scheme is that the channel is only transmitting the blocking signal if a relay detects an external fault. It is therefore biased towards dependability in that the breakers on either end of the line can operate if the communications channel is inoperable. Breaker
__label__energy	Optimization-Based Resiliency Veriﬁcation in Microgrids via Maximal Adversarial Set Characterization Nawaf Nazir , Thiagarajan Ramachandran, Saptarshi Bhattacharya, Ankit Singhal, Soumya Kundu, and Veronica Adetola Abstract Critical energy infrastructures are increasingly relying on advanced sensing and control technologies for efﬁcient and optimal utilization of ﬂexible energy resources. Algorithmic procedures are needed to ensure that such systems are designed to be resilient to a wide range of cyber-physical adversarial events. This paper provides a robust optimization framework to quantify the range of adversarial perturba- tions that a system can accommodate without violating pre- speciﬁed resiliency metrics. An inner-approximation of the set of adversarial events which can be mitigated by the availabe ﬂexibility is constructed using an optimization based approach. The proposed algorithm is illustrated on an islanded microgrid example: a modiﬁed IEEE 123-node feeder with distributed energy resources. Simulations are carried out to validate that the resiliency metrics are met for any event sampled from the constructed adversarial set for varying levels of available ﬂexibility (energy reserves). I. INTRODUCTION Decarbonization ,digitalization , and decentralization are driving the evolution of the energy infrastructures worldwide in the 21st century 1 . There are incentives towards low carbon solutions (including, but not limited to, renewable energy resources), most of which are located at the customer sites (e.g., rooftop solar panels). On the other hand, advanced sensing and control technologies, coupled with ubiquitous communication infrastructure, are creating a digital platform for efﬁcient and optimal utilization of distributed energy re- sources. Fueled by these and other drivers, microgrids are fast emerging as viable energy infrastructure. Microgrids are a group of ﬂexible energy resources operating together locally as a single controllable entity, satisfying certain reliability, power quality, and adequacy standards 2 . Safe and reliable operation of microgrids via optimal coordination of the ﬂexible energy resources has drawn much attention in recent works 3 . Several works, including 4 , have shown how microgrids with multiple energy sources can minimize the cost of energy and increase the resilience of energy supply to critical loads. In 5 , data-driven methods have been used to study the impact of uncertainties in the renewable generation on microgrid resiliency, whereas in 6 , resiliency metrics are incorporated into the microgrid planning problem. A robust optimization framework for microgrid operation is The authors are with the Electricity Infrastructure and Buildings Division at the Paciﬁc Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354, USA. S. Kundu holds a joint appointment as an Adjunct Faculty within the Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering at the University of Vermont, Burlington, VT 05405, USA. Corresponding Author. Email: nawaf.nazir pnnl.gov .presented in 7 , which calculates the reserves required to ensure robustness under modeled uncertainties. The resiliency of energy systems, e.g., microgrids, against various cyber and physical adversarial events, including malicious attacks, have been studied in the literature 8 11 . One type of such attacks includes injecting measure- ment errors to renewable generation output. Such errors can be constant offsets or potentially time-varying, and left untreated, may eventually lead to ramp-induced attacks 12 . Another class of attacks include replay attacks 13 , whereby the measured renewable generation output is maliciously changed to reﬂect the true generation at a previous time stamp, thus impacting dispatch decisions. A third class of attacks entails corruption of state estimation, whereby the estimated physical quantities required for dispatch decisions (such as load setpoints) are maliciously changed 14 , 15 . Speciﬁcally, load-setpoint change attacks often cause maxi- mal impact when affected during speciﬁc hours of the day (for example, during 12 - 7 PM, when the load typically rises to hit an evening peak). A ﬁnal class of attacks is coordinated attacks, whereby an attacker often has access to multiple critical information of the system, and can maliciously pose threats in a coordinated manner, from multiple sources (such as malicious under-estimation of load coupled with over- estimation of renewable capacity). Examples of such cyber- physical attacks can be found in 12 , 16 , 17 . In addition to attacks, other physical events such as generator outage, loss of solar generation due to cloud coverage, etc., could also lead to violations of critical operational constraints (such as serviceability of critical loads), as considered in this work. The main contribution of the paper is to identify the set of cyber-physical adversarial events that the microgrid is guaranteed to be resilient against, via optimal use of available ﬂexible energy resources. An optimization problem is set up to construct an inner approximation of the tolerable adversarial set. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Sec. II presents the microgrid model that will be used in this paper and presents baseline optimization results without considering the uncertainty due to adversarial events. Sec. III provides the robust version of the microgrid optimization problem that calculates optimal reserves required to manage the adversarial events. Sec. IV provides the adversarial set characterization technique that is used to determine an inner approximation of the set of adversarial events that the mi- crogrid can handle. Simulation results showing various case studies on the baseline model, robust model and adversarial set characterization are shown in Sec. V. Finally, Sec. VIarXiv:2203.14918v1 eess.SY 28 Mar 2022 provides the conclusions and the scope for future work. II. BASELINE OPTIMIZATION Let us begin by presenting a formulation of the optimal dispatch problem in a microgrid with various distributed energy resources, including solar photovoltaics (PVs), diesel generators (DGs), and energy storage (ES) units. We intro- duce a few notations for the following mathematical descrip- tion. LetNdenote the set of all bus indices, and L N N denote the set of all branches. We use Vn;kto denote the multi-phase voltage vector at bus n2N , at timek. The net apparent power injection at bus n, at timek, is denoted by Snet n;k Pnet n;k jQnet n;k, wherePnet n;kandQnet n;kare the respective active and reactive power components. Likewise, the Table I lists the symbols denoting the apparent, active, and reactive power associated with each of the energy resources
__label__energy	1 Distributed Energy Resources Cybersecurity Outlook: Vulnerabilities, Attacks, Impacts, and Mitigations Ioannis Zografopoulos, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Nikos D. Hatziargyriou, Life Fellow, IEEE , Charalambos Konstantinou, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The digitization and decentralization of the electric power grid are key thrusts for an economically and envi- ronmentally sustainable future. Towards this goal, distributed energy resources (DER), including rooftop solar panels, battery storage, electric vehicles, etc., are becoming ubiquitous in power systems. Power utilities benefit from DERs as they minimize operational costs; at the same time, DERs grant users and aggregators control over the power they produce and consume. DERs are interconnected, interoperable, and support remotely controllable features, thus, their cybersecurity is of cardinal importance. DER communication dependencies and the diversity of DER architectures widen the threat surface and aggravate the cybersecurity posture of power systems. In this work, we focus on security oversights that reside in the cyber and physical layers of DERs and can jeopardize grid operations. Existing works have underlined the impact of cyberattacks targeting DER assets, however, they either focus on specific system components (e.g., communication protocols), do not consider the mission- critical objectives of DERs, or neglect the adversarial perspec- tive (e.g., adversary attack models) altogether. To address these omissions, we comprehensively analyze adversarial capabilities and objectives when manipulating DER assets, and then present how protocol and device-level vulnerabilities can materialize into cyberattacks impacting power system operations. Finally, we provide mitigation strategies to thwart adversaries and directions for future DER cybersecurity research. Index Terms Attacks, cybersecurity, distributed energy re- sources (DERs), mitigations. I. I NTRODUCTION In the last decades, electric power systems (EPS) have undergone significant transformations (e.g., decentralized gen- eration, digitization of customer services, smart grid initia- tives, etc.) to meet the increasing power demand and provide economically and environmentally friendly energy. Renewable energy resources (RES) harnessing wind, solar, and thermal energy have been used to improve energy efficiency while meeting stringent carbon emission regulations 1 . The shift towards more sustainable grid architectures has also boosted the adoption of distributed energy resources (DER). According to the definition of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), DERs are distribution-level resources that produce electricity and are not part of the bulk EPS 2 . DERs can leverage renewable or non-renewable resources. DER devices are classified into different categories based on their operation principles, e.g., generation, energy storage, Manuscript accepted in IEEE Systems Journal. Ioannis Zografopoulos is with the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia (e-mail: zografop gmail.com). Nikos D. Hatziargyriou is with the National Technical University of Athens, 10682 Athens, Greece, and the University of Vaasa, 65200 Vaasa, Finland. Charalambos Konstantinou is with the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia.combination of the two, or controllable loads. Solar panels and wind turbines belong to the generation category 3 , batteries and electric vehicles (EVs) fall into energy storage, combined cooling and heating, and electric water heaters are examples of controllable loads 4 , and inverter-based resources (IBR) can be used in both generation and storage scenarios. The rapid integration of DERs highlights their importance for EPS and the global generation capacity is expected to grow from 132.4 GW in 2017 to 528.4 GW by 2026 5 . Similar observations can be made for battery energy storage systems (BESS). Namely, in the United States (U.S.), BESS are expected to grow from 1.2 GW in 2020 to nearly 7.5 GW in 2025, while developing into a market of 7.3 billion annually 6 . Strategic placement of DERs, can utilize on-site genera- tion and minimize utility costs by deferring investments for the expansion of the power system network. DER-generated power does not need to be transferred from remote bulk generation fa- cilities, minimizing energy losses and providing economically dispatchable power. DERs could reduce transmission system operator (TSO) ancillary market costs, which increased by al- most 70 during the 2020 COVID-19 lockdown 7 . This was due to the stochasticity of real-time power demand and the re- quirement to maintain frequency stability and energy reserves, mainly relying on the intermittent generation of RES, which created a very competitive power market. DERs can enhance EPS reliability through DER-supported autonomous functions. With higher DER penetration, the consequences of disastrous events could be averted or effectively mitigated 8 . For instance, DERs could alleviate the impacts of extreme weather events similar to the Texas snowstorm in February 2021 9 . The flexible and autonomous attributes of DERs render them invaluable pillars for the EPS critical infrastructure (CI). Being crucial parts of the EPS, DERs can become prominent cyberattack targets. Attackers could exploit vulnerabilities, i.e., weaknesses in a system that can be leveraged to carry out an attack, to compromise remote communication, gain control of DERs, and propagate attack impacts to the rest of the system. The cybersecurity incident in Utah, U.S. on 5 March 2019 is a prime example of how compromised communications can affect grid services. In this incident, attackers exploited vulner- abilities in security firewall devices to halt communications be- tween system operators and distribution wind and solar utilities 10 . The impact of this denial-of-service (DoS) attack caused loss of visibility of power grid assets and could have caused interruptions of electrical system operations 11 . To overcome cyberattacks comprehensive security investigations should be performed taking into account the cyber-physical DER nature. On the cyber level, protocols facilitate the communication between DERs and utility aggregators for DER monitoringarXiv:2205.11171v4 cs.CR 2 Oct 2023 2 Fig. 1: Utility-to-DER interconnection. TABLE I: Common DER communication protocols. Protocol Description Std. IEEE 1815 DNP3Interoperable communication framework for secure information exchange in industrial systems (e.g., SCADA) 12 Sunspec ModbusModbus protocol extension for DER parameters (e.g., power, voltage) and ancillary services monitoring and control 13 OpenADREnergy market management standard regulating demand-response via signals to DERs and other controllable devices 14 IEEE 2030.5Smart energy profile application standard and default protocol for DER management 15 and control purposes (Fig. 1). Information and communica- tion technologies (ICT) enable communication
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__energy	Highlights The strong eﬀect of network resolution on electricity system models with high shares of wind and solar Martha Maria Frysztacki,Jonas Hörsch,Veit Hagenmeyer,Tom Brown Highly-renewable European power system is optimized at high spatial resolution High-resolution capacity placement for wind and solar reduces costs by up to 10 Models with low network resolution ignore congestion, underestimating costs by 23 Costs underestimated most when grid expansion limited by, e.g., public acceptance Grid reinforcements relieve congestion and lower system costs by up to 16 arXiv:2101.10859v4 physics.soc-ph 16 Jan 2023 The strong eﬀect of network resolution on electricity system models with high shares of wind and solar? Martha Maria Frysztackia,1, Jonas Hörscha,b, Veit Hagenmeyeraand Tom Browna,b aInstitute for Automation and Applied Informatics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, 76344 Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany bFrankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies, Ruth-Moufang-Straße 1, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany ARTICLE INFO Keywords : energy system modelling spatial scale clustering transmission grid modelling resource resolutionABSTRACT Energy system modellers typically choose a low spatial resolution for their models based on admin- istrative boundaries such as countries, which eases data collection and reduces computation times. However, a low spatial resolution can lead to sub-optimal investment decisions for wind and solar generation. Ignoringpowergridbottleneckswithinregionstendstounderestimatesystemcosts,while combining locations with diﬀerent wind and solar capacity factors in the same resource class tends to overestimate costs. We investigate these two competing eﬀects in a capacity expansion model for Europe s power system with a high share of renewables, taking advantage of newly-available high- resolution datasets as well as computational advances. We vary the number of nodes, interpolating betweena37-nodemodelbasedoncountryandsynchronouszoneboundaries,anda1024-nodemodel based on the location of electricity substations. If we focus on the eﬀect of renewable resource reso- lution and ignore network restrictions, we ﬁnd that a higher resolution allows the optimal solution to concentratewindandsolarcapacityatsiteswithbettercapacityfactorsandthusreducessystemcosts byupto10 comparedtoalowresolutionmodel. Thisresultsinabigswingfromoﬀshoretoonshore wind investment. However, if we introduce grid bottlenecks by raising the network resolution, costs increasebyupto23 asgenerationhastobesourcedmorelocallyatsiteswithworsecapacityfactors. Theseeﬀectsaremostpronouncedinscenarioswhere gridexpansionislimited,forexample,bylow localacceptance. Weshowthatallowinggridexpansionmitigatessomeoftheeﬀectsofthelowgrid resolution, and lowers overall costs by around 16 . 1. Introduction Electricity systems with high shares of wind and solar photovoltaicgenerationrequireafundamentallydiﬀerentkind of modelling to conventional power systems with only dis- patchable generation 63 . While investments in conven- tionalpowerplantscanbedimensionedaccordingtosimple heuristicslikescreeningcurves 10 ,theassessmentofwind andsolarresourcesrequiresahightemporalandspatialres- olutiontocapturetheirweather-drivenvariability. Theneed to assess investments in generation, transmission and ﬂexi- bility options over thousands of representative weather and demandsituations,aswellasoverthousandsofpotentiallo- cations, means that balancing model accuracy against com- putational resources has become a critical challenge. The eﬀects of temporal resolution have been well re- searched in the electricity system planning literature 12 , including the need for at least hourly modelling resolution 63 , the consequences of clustering representative condi- tions 41 , and the need to include extreme weather events 50 . Onthespatialside,ithasbeenrecognizedthatintegrat- ing renewable resources on a continental scale can smooth large-scale weather variations, particularly from wind 23 , and avoid the need for temporal balancing. This smooth- ing eﬀect has been found in studies of the beneﬁts of grid expansion both in Europe, where the impact on balancing needs 53 andstoragerequirements 55 hasbeenanalysed, ?This document is the results of the research project funded by Helmholtz Association under grant no. VH-NG-1352. ORCID(s): 1Corresponding author martha.frysztacki kit.edu (Martha Maria)and in the United States 44 . However, there has been lit- tle research on the eﬀects of spatial resolutions on planning results. This is partly due to the fact that collecting high- resolutionspatialdataischallenging,aswellasthefactthat optimizationathigh-resolutionoverlargeareasiscomputa- tionally demanding. Choosing the spatial resolution based on administrative boundariessuchascountryborders whichisacommonap- proach in the literature 23, 53, 31 fails to account for the variation of resources inside large countries like Germany. Aggregating low-yield sites together with high-yield sites takesawaytheopportunitytooptimizegenerationplacement, which distorts investment decisions and drives up costs. Onthe otherhand,aggregating diverseresourcesto sin- glepointstendstounderestimatenetwork-relatedcosts,since the models are blind to network bottlenecks that might hin- derthewelfare-enhancingintegrationofrenewableresources located far from demand centers. The eﬀects of network re- strictions are all the more important given the apparent low public acceptance for new overhead transmission lines, ob- servedinGermany 30 andacrossEurope 20 ,andthelong planning and construction times for new grid infrastructure 26 . Inthepresentcontributionweintroduceanovelmethod- ology to disentangle these two competing spatial eﬀects of resource and network resolution, so that for the ﬁrst time theirdiﬀerentimpactsonsystemcostsandtechnologychoices can be quantiﬁed. We then demonstrate the methodology by running simulations in a model of the future European electricity system with a higher spatial resolution than has Martha Maria et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 15 The strong eﬀect of network resolution on energy system models previously been achieved in the literature. We optimize in- vestmentsandoperationofgeneration,storageandtransmis- sion jointly in a system with a high share of renewables un- der a 95 reduction in CO2emissions compared to 1990, which is consistent with European targets for 2050 25 . A recently-developed, high-resolution, open-source model of the European transmission network, PyPSA-Eur 37 , is se- quentially clustered from 1024 nodes down to 37 nodes in order to examine the eﬀects on optimal investments in gen- eration, transmission and storage. Previous work in the engineering literature has focused on the eﬀect of diﬀerent network clustering algorithms 40 on the ﬂows in single power ﬂow simulations 11, 33 , or usedclusteringalgorithmsthataredependentonspeciﬁcdis- patch situations 18, 62, 59 and therefore unsuitable when makinglargechangestogenerationandtransmissioncapac- ities. Intheplanningliteraturethatconsidersahighshareof renewablesinthefutureenergysystem,theeﬀectsofcluster- ingappliedseparatelytowind,solaranddemandwereinves- tigatedin 61 ,butneglectedpotentialtransmissionlinecon- gestion within large regions. In 43 the previous study was extendedbyincludingasynthesizedgridandrenewablepro- ﬁles,butitignoredtheexistingtopologyofthetransmission grid. Eﬀects of varying the resolution were not considered in either of the studies. Recent work has examined regional solutions for the European power system, but did not take into account existing transmission lines, potential low pub- licacceptanceforgridreinforcementorthegridﬂowphysics 67 . Otherstudieshaveexaminedtransmissiongridexpan- sion at substation resolution, but either the temporal reso- lution was too low to account for wind and solar variability 24,35 ,oronlysinglecountrieswereconsidered 46,1,35 , or transmission expansion was not co-optimized with gen- eration and storage 24, 15, 58 . The competing eﬀect of clustering transmission lines versus variable resource sites on the share of renewables was also discussed in 21 , but thereportdidnotprovideananalysisofhowstronglythere- spective clustering impacts modeling and planning results. The eﬀects of model resolution on system planning results were considered for the United States in 42 , where a cost- beneﬁt was seen
__label__energy	arXiv:2105.10402v1 eess.SP 1 Mar 20211 Controllable Transmission Networks Under Demand Uncertainty with Modular FACTS Alireza Soroudi Abstract The transmission system operators (TSOs) are responsible t o provide secure and efﬁcient access to the transmission sys tem for all stakeholders. This task is gradually getting challe nging due to the demand growth, demand uncertainty, rapid ch anges in generation mix, and market policies. Traditionally, the TSOs try to maximize the technical performance of the transm ission network via building new overhead lines or physical hardeni ng. However, obtaining public acceptance for building new l ines is not an easy step in this procedure. For this reason, the TSO s try to capture the capabilities of existing assets. This pa per investigates the use of modular FACTS devices (to alter the l ine characteristics) for improving the capability of trans mission network in serving the uncertain demand without the need for building new overhead lines. The proposed method considers the uncertainty of demands and controls the utilization of e xisting transmission assets. The mathematical results obt ained are validated with a complete non-linear simulation model of th ree transmission networks. Index Terms Transmission network, Power ﬂow controller, Congestion, F lexibility. NOMENCLATURE The notations and symbols used throughout the paper are stat ed in this section. Abbreviations: MF Membership Function M-FACTS Modular Flexible AC Transmission system P2H Power to hydrogen. RES Renewable Energy Sources TSO Transmission System Operator Sets: ΩB Set of network buses. Ωℓ Set of network lines. ΩG Set of generating units. Variables: αf(P) Forecasted membership function describing the uncertain d emand αc(P) Calculated membership function describing the uncertain d emand considering technical constraints LR Load repression Pα i,D Uncertain active demand at bus i. Pα i,g Uncertain active output of generator at bus i. δα i Uncertain delta angle of bus i. Parameters: αLR min Degree of load repression for load reduction αLR max Degree of load repression for load increase βmin i,j Minimum ﬂexibility of M-FATCS for changing the line impedan ce of the line connecting bus i to j. βmax i,j Minimum ﬂexibility of M-FATCS for changing the line impedan ce of the line connecting bus i to j. Alireza Soroudi(alireza.soroudi ucd.ie) is with the Scho ol of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University Co llege Dublin, Ireland. This work was conducted at the Energy Institute, University College Dubl in, Ireland. This publication has emanated from research co nducted with ﬁnancial support from Science Foundation Ireland, Grant Number SFI 15 SPP E312 5. 2 Pmin i,g Minimum operating limit of the generator connected to bus i. Pmax i,g Maximum operating limit of the generator connected to bus i. Pα i,D Predicted active demand at bus i. ˇPα i,D Predicted lower bound active demand at bus i. ˆPα i,D Predicted upper bound active demand at bus i. Bi,j Susceptance of the line connecting bus i to j. Plim i,j Thermal limit of line connecting bus i to j. τ Total available M-FACTS ﬂexibility. wi Weight factor indicating the importance of demand at bus i. I. I NTRODUCTION A. Motivations THE role of transmission system operator is to keep the securi ty and efﬁciency of the transmission network. The resilient transmission network should be able to deal with high impact low probability events 1 . The events can be named as natural disasters, cyber-attacks 2 , physical attacks, s imultaneous multiple component outages and etc. Another ev ent that has the potential to cause cascading outages is transmissio n line overloading. In case, the throughput of a line is beyon d the seasonal thermal limits then the protection system might ca use an outage of this line and naturally the ﬂow will be transf erred to other parallel paths (if they exist). Another solution mi ght be load shedding to alleviate the line s power ﬂow. Howev er, it is not a desirable or cheap solution for the customers. The ad equacy of the transmission network in supplying the demand c an be affected by different factors such as line impedance, the rmal capacity, and network topology. Building new overhead lines (to address these problems) usually provokes the protest of residents mainly due to the land-use conﬂicts, noise, aesth etic concerns, and safety issues 3 . TSO should be able to efﬁciently use the existing assets to en sure the ability of the transmission system to meet reasonab le demands 4 , 5 . Some important factors should be taken in t o account namely, the ideal solution should be rapidly appli cable, capable of dealing with uncertainties 6 , and ﬁnally, comm unity acceptance. The Modular Flexible AC Transmission Sys tem (M-FACTS) devices can improve asset utilization and reliev ing the technical constraints by controlling the power ﬂow i n the transmission system 7 . The M-FACTS 8 are modular uni ts that can be installed on some transmission lines and they are capable of pushing the power from heavily loaded lines to lightly loaded lines in the inductive mode of operation. In capacitive mode, the M-FACTS (installed on less loaded line s) will absorb the power from other lines. The M-FACTS device s have some advantages over the FACTS devices such as fast inst allation, redeployment possibility, and more ﬂexibility f or changing the line impedance 9 . B. Literature review The M-FACTS have been studied in different power system cont exts. For example, Cyber-Security constrained Placement of FACTS Devices 10 based on topological characteristics of the underlying physical graphs of transmission networks. Resolving intact and post-contingency overloading 11 us ing a DC-OPF and Power Transfer Distribution Factors. Power quality enhancement in presence of RES technologies 12 Detecting False Data Injection Attacks on Power Grid State E stimation 13 . Phase current balancing 14 using the existing logistics i nfrastructure 15 . This industrial project assessed the i mpact of M-FACTS on the 63-kV grid along with the Wi-Fi communication system between the onsite modules and a 3G network linking the site to a web-hosted platform installed in regio
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	Received day Month , year ; Revised day Month , year ; Accepted day Month , year DOI: xxx xxxx ORIGINAL ARTICLE Consensus-Based Decentralized Energy Trading for Distributed Energy Resources Zhenyu Wang1 Xiaoyu Zhang2 Hao Wang 1 1Department of Data Science and AI, FacultyofInformationTechnology,Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 2School of Business and Management, Shanghai International Studies University, Shanghai, China Correspondence Hao Wang, Department of Data Science and AI, Faculty of Information Technology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia. Email: hao.wang2 monash.eduAbstract Insmartgrids,distributedenergyresources(DERs)havepenetratedresidentialzones to provide a new form of electricity supply, mainly from renewable energy. Resi- dential households and commercial buildings with DERs have become prosumers in the local grids, since they can sell surplus power to others. Researches have been initiated to integrate and utilize DERs through better control and communication strategies. With the advances in the Internet of Things (IoT) technology, unprece- dented coordination among DERs can be achieved to facilitate energy trading and transactive energy management. However, preventing leakage of users information duringtheoptimizationprocesskeepschallengingresearchers,whichdrivesthemto develop privacy-preserving energy management systems. In this paper, we develop a fully decentralized transactive energy management using the consensus-based algorithm. To be speciﬁc, we design a virtual pool for prosumers to trade energy and exchange information with IoT technologies support. The consensus-based algorithmenablesprosumerstoobtaintheoptimalenergyscheduleindependentlyin acoordinatedmannerwithoutrevealinganypersonaldata.Weusereal-worlddatato performsimulationsandvalidateourdevelopedalgorithm.Theresultsshowthatour consensus-based decentralized transactive energy management strategy is feasible and can signiﬁcantly reduce the overall system cost. 1INTRODUCTION The smart grid has been trending across the globe to develop grid intelligence and improve energy eﬃciency, and distributed energyresources(DERs)havebeenpromotedtodeployatresidentialhomesandcommercialbuildingstoprovidenewtypesof sustainable energy sources. DERs, such as solar panels and electric vehicles used locally on the consumption side, transform usersintoprosumersprovidingcleanenergymoreeﬃcientlyandreliably.Beneﬁtedfromtheevolutionoftwo-waypowerﬂow 1 , prosumerswithDERscansaveonelectricitybillsbysellingsurpluspowertothegridorparticipatinginenergytradingwithother prosumers at a relatively lower price. The emergence of prosumers in the grid also enables a paradigm shift toward transactive energy 2 .TofacilitatetransactiveenergymanagementofDERs,suﬃcientinformationexchangewithDERsisoftennecessary. Duetothenatureoflow-ratedatatransmissionbetweenDERs,ithasbeenshownthattheInternetofThings(IoT)technologies (e.g., Narrowband IoT) can outperform other types of network connection (e.g., WiFi) in DER communication 3 . With the developmentofIoTtechnology,thedevice-to-device(D2D)communicationsbecomemuchmoreintelligent 4 ,andDERdevices canbemonitoredandcontrolledmoreeﬀectively 5 .ThisgivesrisetolowerlatencyandmoreconsiderablescalabilityinvariousarXiv:2110.15178v1 eess.SY 28 Oct 2021 2 Wang et al. smart grid applications 6 . This motivates us to study the following problem in the paper: what would be a good transactive energy management strategy that promotes eﬃcient utilization of DERs using IoT communications? 1.1 Literature Review ExistingstudieshaveinvestigatedDERsutilizationandcoordinationatthelocallevelandholisticlevels.Atthelocallevel,DERs withotherelectricappliancescanformanintelligentmicrogridoravirtualpowerplanttoimprovethegrid senergyeﬃciency andreduceenergycostforprosumers 7 .TheenergymanagementsystemcanoptimizetheenergyusagescheduleofHVACand other DERs for each prosumer 8 . At the holistic level, transactive energy management can fully utilize renewable energy and other DERs for the whole grid network. The management processes typically require users to share their energy consumption preferences and then schedule cooperatively through a central optimization system. Luna et al.designed a centralized system to store and share energy among households, which fully utilizes all DERs in a coordinated manner 9 . Tentiet al.developed a cooperativeframeworktoenhancethegrideﬃciencybyreducingthedistributionlossofDERsviacentralcontrol 10 .Yi,Hong and Liu proposed an initialization-free distributed algorithms to eliminate the adaptation work whenever the network structure ischanged 11 .However,thesecentralizedmanagementstrategiesraiseprivacyconcerns,sinceusers privateinformationwould beatriskofleakagewhensolvingaglobaloptimizationproblem.ParticularlyforIoTenvironments,personaldatacanbeeasily exploited 12,13 , and data leakage may occur 14 . Recentstudiesondistributedtransactiveenergymanagementhavebeenwidelydevelopedtoaddressthechallengesofprivacy preservation.Parisio etal.validatedthedistributedcoordinationalgorithmunderthemodelpredictivecontrolframework,which allowed microgrids to perform local optimization sequentially 15 . However, usage information is still disclosed and may be exploited by outside parties. A better way to preserve privacy is to prevent personal data from transmitting to the system. Changet al.employed the contract net protocol and multi-factor methods to carry out the energy exchange optimization alone without including any personal consumption information 16 . Geet al.designed a novel decomposition algorithm to build a decentralized platform 17 , where energy transactions among users can be settled to preserve local load information. Le et al. adopted a distributed neurodynamic algorithm to optimize the energy trading by exchanging information among neighbors 18 . Nizamiet al.developed a two-stage energy management system that enables energy trading between users under a separated transactivemarket 19 .Still,thesuccessoftradingbidsheavilydependsonusers inclinations,whichwouldbringineﬀectiveness in real-world applications. Researchers have also made eﬀorts on adding protection mechanisms to the information transmission. Aitzhan and Svetinovic 20 attempted to anonymize the trading transactions using multi-signatures and blockchain technologies. Yang and Wang 21,22 developedblockchainsystemswithsmartcontractstoimplementdistributedoptimizationalgorithmsfortransactive energy management of smart homes. Chen et al.considered the blockchain technology in economic dispatch problems 23 and peer-to-peerenergytrading 24 tosecurethereliabilitywithoutacoordinator.Lu etal.adoptedPaillierencryptionontheprivate information in the transactive energy system 25 . Nevertheless, both anonymization and encryption will require extra time and resources to protect user privacy, hindering the deployment of transactive energy systems. 1.2 Research Gap and Motivation From the existing studies, we can see that diﬀerent algorithms and technologies have their strengths and weaknesses to pro- tectuserinformation.Mostoftheproposedsystemsincludecentraloperatorstoperformthehigher-leveloptimizationprocess. Yangetal.proposedaconsensus-basedalgorithmtosolvetheeconomicdispatchproblemwithoutanyrelianceoncentralcon- trollers 26 . Zhaoet al.also adopted the consensus-based algorithm to preserve privacy when obtaining the optimal solutions for smart grid energy management 27 . However, both of the studies focused on generation units other than prosumers with DERs.Unliketheabovestudies,weaimtooptimizetheenergyschedulingforagroupofprosumersusingtheconsensus-based algorithm, which would help promote the installation of DERs in residential houses. Celik et al.developed a decentralized energymanagementsystemforsmarthomesbyallowingcoordinatedenergysharing,whichisolatesthepricingmechanismfrom users 28 . Wanget al.designed a decentralized mechanism to incentivize users to share energy through evaluating their contri- butions 29 .Incontrast,ourmarket-likepoolallowsthetradingpricetobeself-adjustedbasedonprosumers tradingdecisions, reﬂectingthepracticeofatransactivemarket.Thus,theneedtoimprovethemanagementprocessofafullydecentralizedsystem Wang et al. 3 stillexiststogainﬂexibilityandprotectuserprivacyatthesametime.OurworkaimstoleveragetheadvancesinIoTtechnolo- gies enabling device-to-device communications to design privacy-preserving decentralized energy management algorithms for DERs. 1.3 Contribution and Paper Organization In this paper, we present a consensus-based decentralized transactive energy management system with the support of IoT technologies. The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows. 1) StructuralFlexibility:Unlikemostexistingstudiesofdistributedenergymanagementusingaﬁxedcommunicationtopology, weestablishadecentralizedtransactiveenergysystemandamarket-likevirtualpoolunderﬂexiblecommunicationtopology. Ourdecentralizedalgorithmenablesprosumerstointeractandexchangeinformationtodeterminetheoptimalenergytrading with their neighbors under an IoT network with diﬀerent D2D communication structures. 2) Privacy preservation: We develop a consensus-based decentralized algorithm that enables users to reach an agreement on energy trading price and quantity over multiple time slots in the operational horizon. The equilibrium prices obtained for consecutiveperiodsleadtoanoptimalsolutiontothetransactiveenergymanagementproblem.Theconsentingprocessonly requiresprosumerstosharetheirenergytradingdatainsteadofthecompleteusagedata,whichwouldpreserveusers privacy. 3) Real-worldpracticability:Wevalidateourdesignedsystemandalgorithmusingreal-worldrenewableenergyandloaddata. The results show that the system cost is reduced by 17:30 , and the cost of individual prosumers can be reduced by up to 71:54 . The results also show the nearest-neighbor D2D communication structure achieves good convergence with much fewer direct connections among prosumers, compared with the all-connected communication structure, demonstrating the practical value of IoT technology for the future decentralized transactive energy system. Therestofthepaperisorganizedasfollows.Section2describesthemodeloftheconsensus-baseddecentralizedtransactive energy system. Section 3 formulates the optimization problems for both standalone and coordinated scenarios of the system. Section4elaboratesonthedesignoftheconsensus-baseddecentralizedalgorithmappliedtotransactiveenergymanagementof prosumers. Section 5 evaluates the proposed system
__label__energy	A step towards digital operations - A novel grey-box approach for modelling the heat dynamics of Ultra-low temperature freezing chambers Tao Huanga, , Peder Bachera, Jan Kloppenborg Møllera, Francesco D Ettorreb, Wiebke Brix Markussenb aTechnical University of Denmark, Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Asmussens All e, Building 303B, Kgs. Lyngby, 8000, Denmark bDanish Technological Institute, Gregersensvej 1, Taastrup, 2630, Denmark Abstract Ultra-low temperature (ULT) freezers store perishable bio-contents and have high energy consumption, which highlight a demand for reliable methods for intelligent surveillance and smart energy management. This study introduces a novel grey-box modelling approach based on stochastic differential equations to describe the heat dynamics of the ULT freezing chambers. The proposed modelling approach only requires temperature data measured by the em- bedded sensors and uses data from the regular operation periods for model identification. The model encompasses three states: cham bertemperature, envelope temperature, andlocalevaporatortemperature. Specialattention isgiven tothelocalevaporatortemperature state, which ismodelled asa time-variantsystem, tocharacterizethetime delayanddynamic variations incoolingintensity. Two ULT freezers with different operational patterns are modelled. The unknown model parameters are estimated using the maximum likelihood method. The results demonstrate that the models can accurately predict the chamber temperature measured by the control probe (RMSE 0.19 C) and are promising to be applied for forecasting future states. In addition, the model for local evaporator temperature can effectively adapt to different operational patterns and provide insight into the local cooling supply status. The proposed approach greatly promotes the practical feasi- bility of grey-box modelling of the heat dynamics for ULT freezers and can serve severalpotentialdigitalapplications. Amajorlimitation ofthemod- elling approach isthelowidentifiability,which canpotentially beaddressed byinferringmodel parametersbased onrelativeparameterchanges. Keywords: Ultra-low temperature freezers, Grey-box models, Heat dynamics, Stochastic differential equations, Smart energy system. Corresponding author Email address: taohu dtu.dk (Tao Huang) Preprint submitted to Elsevier June 14, 2023arXiv:2306.07772v1 eess.SY 13 Jun 2023 Nomenclature Variables and parameters CcHeat capacity of the chamber state CeA parameter determining the inertia of the evaporator CwHeat capacity of the envelope state mtCompressor state signal (0 1) MtTrans formed compressor state signal (-1 1) Mac tAccumulated trans formed compressor state signal RceThermal resistance between the chamber and local evap- orator RcwThermal resistance between the chamber and envelope RwaThermal resistance between the envelope and ambient en- vironment Ta tAmbient air temperature ( C) Tc tChamber temperature mea- sured by RTD ( C) Te tLocal evaporator temperature ( C) Te,in tEvaporator inlet temperature ( C) Te,out t Evaporator outlet tempera- ture ( C)Tw tChamber envelope temperature ( C) St( ) Sigmoid function (from 0 to 1) ωtStandard Wiener process XkThe stochastic state variable of the system at time tk YkThe stochastic observation vari- able of the system at time tk L( ) Likelihood function LP( ) Profile likelihood function l( ) Log-likelihood function lP( ) Profile log-likelihood function Abbreviations ACF Auto-correlation Function FDD Fault Detection and Diagnos- tics F 1 Freezer No. 1 F 2 Freezer No. 2 MPC Model Predictive Control MF 1Model for Freezer No. 1 MF 2Model for Freezer No. 2 RTD Resistance Thermal Detector ULT Ultra-low Temperature 2CRS Two-stage Cascading Refrig- eration System 2 1. Introduction Ultra-lowtemperature(ULT) freezersplay avitalroleinpharmaceutical businesses andresearch organizations bypreservingvaluable andperishable items such astissues, blood samples, andorgans. Their significance wasfur- therunderscored duringtheCOVID -19pandemic when ULT freezersplayed acriticalroleinstoringvaccines 1 .Toensurethequalityofstored contents, itisessentialtohave continuousmonitoringandearly fault detection and diagnosis(FDD) ofthethermalconditioninfreezingcham bers. Compared tostandard refrigerators, ULT freezersoperateat-40 Cto -90 C. To reach low temperatures, anULT freezer may consume upto20 kWh day 2 .This isestimated tobethree times more than thedaily power consump tionofanaverageDanishhouse hold 3 .Consequently, ULT freezers areamong themost energy-intensivepieces ofequip ment inhospitals, bio- banks, laboratory build ings, etc. 4, 5 . Given thegrowingemphasisonthe transitiontolow-carboncities, itisalsoimperativetoimprove their energy efficiency andunlock energy flexibility 6, 7, 8 . Apromis ingsolution isto replace thesimpleset-point controlwith advanced model predictivecontrol (MPC) 9, 10 . However, anessentialprerequisitetoachiev ingcontinuousmonitoring, FDD, andMPC inULT freezersistheavailabilityofa reliable dynamic model. Previous studies have attempted to model the heat dynamics of re- frigerator chambers using different approaches. They can be categorized as white-box modelling 11, 12 , black-box modelling 13, 14, 15 , and grey-box modelling. The deterministic white-box models are established based on de- tailed physical descriptions of the systems without including stochastic model parts. They are physically plausible but usually demanding to build and are not useful for statistical estimations of parameters. Black-box models are based purely on data-driven approaches. They are superior in computational load at the expense of physical interpretability. Stochas tic grey-box modelling is an intermediate approach between white - and black-box modelling. Grey- box models are formulated based on physical considerations but explicitly include stochastic descriptions of unexplained variation in data. The models preserve critical physical meanings and leverage the advantage of pure data- driven approaches. The parameters can be estimated and tracked over time, which makes it possible to detect systematic changes linked directly to the operational status. Thus, grey-box models have better generalization prop- erties than other types of models 16 and have proven to be more reliable for practical implementations 17, 18, 19, 20 . Several grey-box models for refrigerator chambers can be found in the literature. O Neill et al. 21 modelled the heat dynamics of cold food stor- age rooms based on ordinary differential equations (ODEs). Leerbeck et al. 22, 23 used stochastic differential equations (SDEs) to formulate the mod- els of the heat dynamics of supermarket refrigerator cabinets. Sossan et al. 24 and Costanzo et al. 25 modelled the heat dynamics of household re- frigerator chambers and evaluated the potential to use the model for simple 3 MPC purposes. These models effectively capture the heat dynamics of the cold chambers. However, they rely on high-quality data from controlled ex- periments, which are intentionally designed to excite the systems for model identification. In addition, these models require various physical quantities as inputs apart from the temperatures, such as refrigerant flow rate, pres- sures at critical locations, and power consump tion. These attributes demand sophisticated sensors and are difficult to measure non-invasively from the re- frigeration loops. All these issues challenge the practical feasibility of these models. Even so, the
__label__energy	Deriving Loss Function for Value-oriented Renewable Energy Forecasting Yufan Zhang , Honglin Wen , Yuexin Bian , and Yuanyuan Shi Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA Department of Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China Abstract Renewable energy forecasting is the workhorse for efficient energy dispatch. However, forecasts with small mean squared errors (MSE) may not necessarily lead to low operation costs. Here, we propose a forecasting approach specifically tailored for operational purposes, by incorporating operational problems into the estimation of forecast models via designing aloss function . We formulate a bilevel program, where the operation problem is at the lower level, and the forecast model estimation is at the upper level. We establish the relationship between the lower-level optimal solutions and forecasts through multiparametric programming. By integrating it into the upper- level objective for minimizing expected operation cost, we convert the bilevel problem to a single-level one and derive the loss function for training the model. It is proved to be piecewise linear, for linear operation problem. Compared to the commonly used loss functions, e.g. MSE, our approach achieves lower operation costs. Index Terms Renewable energy forecast, Point forecast, Loss function design, Multiparametric programming I. I NTRODUCTION Forecasting is usually regarded as an indispensable tool to accommodate the uncertainty of renewable energy sources (RESs). It leverages information at the current time and predicts the generation at future time. Typically, the forecast model can be developed using data-driven methods, especially cutting-edge techniques such as deep learning 1 and gradient boosting machines 2 . At the model estimation (training) stage, a loss function is required to guide the optimization of the forecast model parameters. For instance, mean squared error (MSE) and pinball loss 3 are respectively used as loss functions for point and quantile forecasting. At the operation stage, forecasts are issued via the trained model and fed into the subsequent operation problem as inputs, which is referred to as the predict, then optimze pipeline. Till now, several models have been developed to improve the statistical quality of forecasts; see a comprehensive review 4 . Unsurprisingly, forecasts can impact decisions, and there- fore impact the value of the operation problem. Previous studies show that there is no guarantee that forecasts with good statistical quality lead to higher value in operations 5 7 (e.g., no guarantee for lower operational costs). It has been suggested in 8 that strategic forecasts are preferred when the penalty on forecast deviation is asymmetric. Therefore, it is promising to design forecast models with high operational value instead of high accuracy. Here, we refer to such forecastsasvalue-oriented forecasts and the traditional ones as quality- oriented forecasts . Typically, the most salient challenge to developing value- oriented forecast models lies in model training. For that, one idea is to integrate the forecast model into the downstream operation problem and estimate the parameters by solving the integrated program, with the assumption that forecast model is linear 9 . Another idea is to encode the operation problem as a differentiable optimization layer 10 , 11 , and to estimate the forecast model together with solving the operation problem in an end-to-end fashion. However, they all confine forecast models to specific types 9 11 , the former requires the forecast models to be linear while the latter requires models to be differentiable, which hinders the applicability. A more general idea is to design loss functions for forecast model estimation that capture the value of the forecast in subsequent operational problems. For instance, the regret loss has been widely used 12 , which is defined as the difference between the optimal objective values under the realization and the forecast. With this idea, the Smart Predict, then Optimize (SPO) loss is proposed in 13 , with a special focus on single- stage operation problems with linear objectives where the cost vector contains unknown parameters 14 . However, it may have limited applicability in the context of sequential power systems operation, where the value of forecast is related with multiple correlated operation problems. Concretely, most power systems operation problems are organized into two stages 15 : at the day-ahead stage, the generation schedule of slow-start generators based on RES forecasts is established; while at the real-time stage close to the actual delivery, any imbalance from the day-ahead schedule is settled by scheduling flexible resources. Therefore, it remains an open issue to design value-oriented forecasting approach for use in such sequential operation problems. In contrast to the approach taken in 16 , 17 in which they design a heuristic 16 or empirical 17 loss function, we propose to theoretically derive a loss function for value- oriented forecasting. The special focus is placed on the virtual power plant (VPP) operator with wind power, which performs the day-ahead and real-time energy dispatch. The wind power forecast is issued for the day-ahead problem, and the real-time problem is performed to settle the forecast deviation. In this line, the value of the forecast is related to the sum of operation costs of the day-ahead and real-time problems. Similar to our previous work 18 , we formulate the task of forecast model 23nd Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2024Paris-Saclay, France June 4th 7th, 2024arXiv:2310.00571v1 eess.SY 1 Oct 2023 parameter estimation as a bilevel program, where the lower level solves the day-ahead and real-time problems given the forecasts issued by the upper level. Based on the optimal solutions provided by the lower level, the forecast model parameters at the upper level are estimated, for minimizing the expected total operation costs at two stages. Different from 18 where only a local loss function in the neighborhood of a given sample is obtained, in this work, we derive the analytical form of loss function across the entire do- main of forecast values via multiparametric programming 19 . Concretely, under the assumption that the day-ahead and real- time energy dispatch problems are linear programs (LPs), the relationship between the forecasts and the optimal solutions to
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Scalable Neural Dynamic Equivalence for Power Systems Qing SHEN 1, Yifan ZHOU1, Huanfeng ZHAO1, Peng ZHANG1, Qiang Zhang2, Slava Maslennikov2, Xiaochuan Luo2 1. Stony Brook University 2. ISO New England Qing.shen stonybrook.edu SUMMARY Traditional grid analytics are model -based, relying strongly on accurate models of power systems, especially the dynamic models of generators, controllers, loads and other dynamic components . However, acquiring thorough power system model s can be impractical in real opera tion due to inaccessible system parameters and the privacy of consumers, which necessitate data -driven dynamic equivalencing of unknown subsystems . Learning reliable dynamic equivalent models for the external systems from SCADA and PMU data , however, is a long -standing intractable problem in power system analysis due to complicated nonlinearity and un foreseeable dynamic modes of power systems. This necessitates dynamic equivalencing for unknown subsystems, which employs physics -informed machine learning and neu ral ordinary differential equations (ODE -NET) to preserve dynamic behaviors post -disturbances. The new contributions are threefold: A NeuDyE formulation to enable a continuous -time, data -driven dynamic equivalence of power systems, saving the effort and expense of acquiring inaccessible system details . An introduction of a Physics -Informed NeuDyE learning (PI -NeuDyE) to actively control the closed -loop accuracy of NeuDyE . Driving Port NeuDyE (DP -NeuDyE), a practical application of NeuDyE, reducing the num ber of inputs required for training. Extensive case studies on the NPCC system validate the generalizability and accuracy of both PI - NeuDyE and DP -NeuDyE . These exhaustive analyses span a multitude of scenarios, differing in the time required for fault clearance, the specific fault locations, and the limitations imposed by the accessibility of only a small subset of data. Test results have demonstrated the scalability and practicality of NeuDyE, showing its potential to be used in ISO and utility control centers for online transient stability analysis and for planning purposes. KEYWORDS Neural d ynamic equivalence, ODE -NET , physics -informed machine learning, model order reduction , driving port. Here your Paper ID 5 numbers Full Name of Study Committee example A2 Power transformers and reactors Preferential Subject - example PS1 Design of resilient transformers Information available from your National Committee and in the emails sent to your att . delete before publication. 2024 Paris Session 1 1. INTRODUCTION Reliable discovery of dynamic equivalent models for unidentified subsystems , specifically external systems , is crucial to ensur e reliable operations of large -scale interconnected transmission systems 1 . However, this task has been a longstanding challenge due to the existence of nonlinear dynamics, complex coherency characteristics, and unavailable component models in power systems 2 3 . Recent advancements in Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) provide an opportunity to readily obtain rich history of high -data-rate measurements, which fostered the development of data -driven dynamic equivalence 4 . While the utilization of neural networks i nto power systems is not a new concept 5 , 6 , their application in power system dynamic equivalence remains an evolving area of research 7 8 . Early investigations primarily concentrated on the direct application of neural networks in power system ana lysis 9 10 , or to use deep learning methods to unveil power system dynamics. Distinguished from other methods, Physics -Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) are engineered to directly leverage physical knowledge to assist the training procedure 11 . Despite various attempts being reported in the literature , significant challenges persist . First, learning continuous -time dynamic behaviors using discrete -time measurements poses a considerable obstacle. Traditional discretization techniques may not fully capture the intricacies of the continuous dynamics, leading to large inaccuracies that limit its practical implementations. Second, achieving robust and stable closed -loop operations under diverse operating conditions and disturbances is essential fo r safe plug -and-play integration of dynamic equivalence. Finally, minimizing the required measurements to ensure a feasible and practical implementation poses a challenge. This research makes three significant contributions to address the aforementione d challenges : Formulation of Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) -Net-enabled Dynamic Equivalence (NeuDyE ): This approach leverages ODEs and neural networks to model the system dynamics accurately, providing a continuous -time, data -driven representation that aligns with the actual behavior of power grids. Introduction of Physics -Informed Neural Dynamic Equivalence ( PI-NeuDyE) : It combines an ODE -NET-enabled equivalent model with physics -informed learning to identify a continuous -time dynamic equivalenc e while ensuring a close match in the closed -loop dynamic behaviors under disturbances. Implementation of a Driving Port NeuDyE (DP -NeuDyE): It reduces the number of inputs required for training, making it more manageable and cost -effective to deploy in real-world interconnected bulk power systems. Its generalization ability is also explored based on electrical distance. This article is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces the mathematical basis of NeuDyE, i.e., how to formulate and simulate a pow er system with subsystems modeled by neural dynamic equivalence. Section 3 explains the key technology of PI-NeuDyE , which is to use Neural -Ordinary - Differential -Equation -Network (ODE -NET) to discover the dynamic equivalence of power systems . Section 4 introduces a variant of NeuDyE called DP -NeuDyE to further trim the features needed. Section 5 presents extensive case studies on the 140 -bus NPCC system 12 . The results demonstrate the effectiveness of NeuDyE and its capability to handle various conting encies . Section 6 discusses the trade -off between the two methods and states the conclusion . 2. PROBLEM FORMULATION For a reliability coordinator (RC), t he entire interconnection can be partitioned into an internal system (InSys) and an external system (ExSys). An RC usually has both accurate dynamic models and real - time observability for InSys, but not ExSys. In reality, there may be a cushion area where the RC has partial observability; however, in this paper, we consider it part of the ExSys as well. Take the 140 -bus NPCC system as an example, InSys and ExSys, connected through two tie lines 13 , are illustrated in Figure 1.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	1 Recent advance s on CO 2-assisted synthesis of metal nanoparticles for the upgrading of biomass -derived compounds Zhiwei Jiang a, 1, Yongjian Zeng a, 1, Ruichao Guo a, Lu Lin a, Rafael Luque c, d, , Kai Yan a, b, a School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Sun Yat -Sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China b Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China c Departamento de Quí mica Orgá nica, Universidad de Có rdoba, Campus Universitario de Rabanales, Edificio Marie Curie (C3), Có rdoba E -14014, Spain d Department of Natural Sciences, Mid Sweden University, Holmgatan 10, 85170 Sundsvall, Sweden Corresponding author . Corresponding author . E-mail addresses : qo2balua uco.es (R. Luque ), yank9 mail.sysu.edu.cn (K. Yan). 1 The a uthors contributed equally to this work. Abstract: Nanostructured catalysts have attracted the increased attention for biomass conversion into high -valued chemicals due to the rapid depletion of fossil resources and increasingly severe environmental issues. Supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO 2) fluid is an attractive medium for synthesizing nanostructured materials due to its favorable properties. In this review, the properties of scCO 2 and the roles of scCO 2 in the fabrication of metal nanoparticles were assessed in detailed. A general overview of the synthesis of different types of metal nanoparticles (including metal oxide nanoparticles) using scCO 2 and the relationship between the structure of the obtained metal nanoparticles and the preparation conditions such as reaction temperature and pressure, 2 types of metal precursors, and deposition time are system summarized and compared in tables. Besides, compared to the meatal catalysts using the conventional methods, the catalysts obtained using scCO 2 exhibited excellent catalytic performance on biomass conversion reactions, mainly focused on oxidation, hydrogenation reactions. Finally, opportunities and challenges of metal nanoparticle preparation using scCO 2 for biomass valorization to chemicals and liquid fuels are highlighted. This review could be help ful for the rational design of more efficient metal catalysts for the selective synthesis of fine chemicals and fuels from biomass -derived chemicals. Keywords: Supercritical CO 2; Metal nanoparticles; Biomass conversion ; Catalytic system ; Renewable chemicals ; Mechanism Word count : 8113 words Abbreviations : scCO 2: supercritical carbon dioxide ; NPs: nanoparticles ; SCFD: supercritical fluid deposition ; SCFs : supercritical fluid ; Tc: critical temperature ; Pc: critical pressure ; GO: graphene oxide ; Pd(hfac) 2: palladium hexafluoroacetylacetonate ; RFA: resorcinol formaldehyde aerogel ; CFD : chemical fluid deposition ; CNT: carbon nanotube ; PET: poly(ethylene terephthalate) ; LA: levulinic acid ; GVL: γ-valerolactone ; TPA: terephthalic acid ; BAL: b enzyl alcohol ; TBHP: tert-butyl hydroperoxide ; PMS: peroxymonosulfate ; MWCNTs : multiwalled carbon nanotubes ; CVs: cyclic voltammograms . 1. Introduction The rapid depletion of fossil resources and increasingly severe environmental pollution have prompted the wide -ranging search for alternative feedstocks and 3 technologies to build a sustainable, renewable society 1-3 . Many countries have launch ed some green strategies to achieve this goal by developing renewable chemicals and clean production technologies. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development , which aimed at achieving sustainable development goals , has been adopted by the United Nations in 2015 4 . China strives to achieve peak CO 2 emissions before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060 5 . Biomass has been deemed one promising renewable alternative to carbon -neutral energy that can be utilized as feedstock s to fabricat e renewable fuels and value -added chemicals 6-8 . Recently , specific feedstocks such as carbohydrates 9 , triglycerides 10 , glycerol 11 , 5- hydroxymethylfurfural 12 , cellulose 13 , hemicelluloses and pentoses 14 , lignin 15 , and lignocellulose 16 through chemical catalytic technology have been widely exploited as platform chemicals to product efficiently various chemicals and biofuels for different industrial app lications . During the biomass conversion, the abundant C O- H, C-C, and C-O bonds in biomass could be activated using multiple multifunctional catalysts through oxidation or reduction reaction to generate various fuels and value - added chemicals 17-19 . Among these catalysts, metal -based catalysts such as ruthenium (Ru) , platinum (Pt) , gold (Au) , palladium (Pd) , iridium ( Ir), rhodium ( Rh) , copper ( Cu), nickel (Ni), and cobalt ( Co) metals have been extensively applied for biomass catalytic conversion reaction (oxidation, hydrogenation, ammonization) 20- 29 . Generally, metal -based catalysts nanoparticles (NPs) can be fabricated throng the deposition of metal NPs on different supports using different techniques, such as incipient wet impregnation 30 , homogeneous deposition precipitation 31 , chemical 4 vapor deposition 32 , photo -assisted depositions 33 , and deposition -precipitation method 34 . Supercritical fluid deposition ( SCFD) has become a bright , environmentally friendly method because of needless organic solvent , low viscosity, and high diffusivity , using which various metal and metal oxide materials with high dispers ion and ultrafine particles have been produced . Well-defined nanoscale metal can be deposited on the solid support by reducing metal salts or organometallic precursors during the SCFD process. The hydrogen as a reducing agent allows the synthesis of pure metal nanoparticles with a green method without using organic solvent 35 . Moreover, thermal decomposition and chemical reduction under different atmosphere s can also occur after deposition 36,37 . Several studies have revealed that metal particles with controll able properties such as size distribution, morphology, catalytic activity, porosity, density, and others could be generated by changing the conditions during the SCFD process 38-40 . Among supercritical fluid compounds , supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO 2) is a green solvent because of its nontoxic, renewable, and economical properties 41 . Furthermore, u sing scCO 2 to fabricate high-performance catalysts has been pinpointed. Until recently, some reviews have systematically reported the development and synthesis of metal materials using scCO 2 for various applications 42,43 . However, summaries on the prepared metal materials through scCO 2 SCFD method for volatilizing biomass -derived compounds are rarely reported. This review focuse s on the recent advance in CO 2-assisted
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Data-Driven Evolutionary Game-Based Model Predictive Control for Hybrid Renewable Energy Dispatch in Autonomous Ships 1stYaoze Liu School of Engineering, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, United Kingdom2ndZhen Tian James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom 3rdJinming Yang School of Computing Science, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom4thZhihao Lin James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom Corresponding author: 2800400l student.gla.ac.uk Abstract In this paper, we propose a data-driven Evolutionary Game-Based Model Predictive Control (EG-MPC) framework for the energy dispatch of a hybrid renewable energy system powering an autonomous ship. The system integrates solar photovoltaic and wind turbine generation with battery energy storage and diesel backup power to ensure reliable operation. Given the uncertainties in renewable generation and dynamic energy demands, an optimal dispatch strat- egy is crucial to minimize operational costs while maintaining system reliability. To address these chal- lenges, we formulate a cost minimization problem that considers both battery degradation costs and diesel fuel expenses, leveraging real-world data to enhance modeling accuracy. The EG-MPC approach integrates evolutionary game dynamics within a receding-horizon optimization framework, enabling adaptive and near-optimal control solutions in real time. Simulation results based on site-specific data demonstrate that the proposed method achieves cost- effective, reliable, and adaptive energy dispatch, outperforming conventional rule-based and standard MPC approaches, particularly under uncertainty. Keywords Energy system, autonomous ship, evolutionary game, model predictive control, real-world data I. I NTRODUCTION Recently, autonomous mobilizing technology has gar- nered significant public attention in variaous domains 1 4 . Among these technologies, the rapid expansion of renewable energy sources and the need for reliable and sustainable power have spurred research into autonomous ships hybrid energy systems 5 7 . The hybrid energy system has significant influence for remote or offshore applications, such as the autonomous ship illustrated in Fig. 1 8 . Offshore aquaculture Equal contribution Fig. 1. Illustration of autonomous ship. farms, which rely on floating structures, require a continuous and cost-effective power supply for various operational needs, including aeration, lighting, monitoring equipment, dead fish handling system, and feeding systems 9 , 10 . Given their offshore location, these facilities have limited access to grid electricity and often rely on diesel generators, which introduce high fuel costs and carbon emissions 11 . Managing energy efficiently is crucial to minimize operational costs and environ- mental impacts 12 , 13 . Hybrid renewable energy systems that combine solar and wind power with battery storage and diesel backup generation offer a promising solution 14 , 15 . However, ensuring reliable energy supply under varying weather conditions and load demands requires sophisticated energy management strategies 12 . Conventional rule-based optimization approaches prioritize one energy source at a time (e.g., using renewable energy first, followed by batteries, and then diesel), leading to suboptimal results 16 . More advanced methods such as Model Predictive Control (MPC) have been widely used for energy dispatch due to their ability to op- timize multi-variable control problems with constraints 17 .arXiv:2504.14750v1 eess.SY 20 Apr 2025 Real-world Data Linear Renewable Energy Model Model Predictive ControlMutation Imitation Evolutionary Game Autonomous Ship Current StateOptimal Control Commands Next StateOptimal Control Commands Model Predictive Control Evolutionary GameMutation ImitationOnline Model Fitting Offline Real-time ControlFig. 2. The proposed framework using EG-MPC based on real-world data. However, MPC can be computationally demanding and may struggle with uncertainty and nonlinearity in renewable gen- eration 18 . Metaheuristic methods, such as evolutionary algorithms and swarm intelligence, have been explored to enhance the performance of MPC-based energy dispatch frameworks 19 21 . Traditional techniques like Ant Colony (AC) Optimiza- tion improves search efficiency but may require extensive computational resources for convergence 22 . Evolutionary Game Theory (EGT), on the other hand, provides a dynamic approach using historical experience to control optimization by leveraging game-theoretic adaptation mechanisms 23 . It enables a self-adaptive search process that efficiently identifies optimal or near-optimal control actions in real-time. Given the energy cost on autonomous ships both require the robustness of MPC and the proper optimization based on historical control sequences. Therefore, the integration of evolutionary game dynamics with MPC (EG MPC) offers a robust and computationally efficient strategy for the dispatch of a hybrid energy system dispatch under uncertainty 24 , 25 . This paper introduces a data-driven EG MPC framework to optimize the energy dispatch of a hybrid renewable energy system powering an offshore aquaculture facility. Our key contributions are as follows. 1) We propose a linear regression-based model to char- acterize the hourly energy consumption of a floating aquaculture facility based on real-world data. This model captures variations in energy demand across hours. 2) We introduce an EG MPC approach for energy dispatch, leveraging evolutionary game dynamics to enhance the search process within the receding-horizon optimizationframework. This approach balances cost minimization and system reliability while adapting to fluctuating re- newable energy availability. 3) We evaluate the proposed framework using site-specific data and compare its performance with conventional MPC, optimization-based strategies, and rule-based op- timization strategies. The results demonstrate that EG MPC achieves lower total costs compared to other pop- ular benchmark algorithms. The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the framework of the whole system. Section 3 details the proposed EG MPC algorithm. Section 4 discusses the simulation setup and results. Finally, Section 5 provides conclusions and future research directions. II. S YSTEM FRAMEWORK The proposed EG-MPC framework optimizes the hybrid renewable energy dispatch of an autonomous ship, integrating solar, wind, battery storage, and diesel backup to ensure cost- effective and reliable operation 26 . The whole framework is illustrated in Fig. 2. At its core, the MPC module provides predictive optimiza- tion over a rolling horizon, determining the best charging, discharging, and backup power usage while ensuring system constraints are met, such as battery SOC limits and renewable energy prioritization 27 . To enhance efficiency, an Evolu- tionary Game Algorithm refines dispatch strategies iteratively through selection, crossover, and mutation, reducing computa- tional complexity and improving adaptability to uncertainties in renewable generation and energy demand. To ensure
__label__energy	arXiv:2504.08060v1 eess.SY 10 Apr 20251 Techno-economic environmental and social assessment framework for energy transition pathways in integrated energy communities: a case study in Alaska Jayashree Yadav, Member, IEEE, Ingemar Mathiasson, Bindu Panikkar and Mads Almassalkhi, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract The transition to low-carbon energy systems de- mands comprehensive evaluation tools that account for tech nical, economic, environmental, and social dimensions. While num erous studies address speciﬁc aspects of energy transition, few p rovide an integrated framework that captures the full spectrum of impacts. This study proposes a comprehensive techno-econo mic, environmental, and social (TEES) assessment framework to evaluate energy transition pathways. The framework provid es a structured methodology for assessing infrastructure nee ds, cost implications, emissions reductions, and social equit y im- pacts, offering a systematic approach for informed decisio n- making. To illustrate its applicability, a detailed case st udy of a remote community in Alaska is conducted, evaluating the TEES impacts of three distinct energy transition pathwa ys including heat pumps (HPs) and battery integration, resour ce coordination and expanded community solar photovoltaic (P V). Findings show that coordination of HPs minimizes peak deman d, enhances grid reliability, and reduces energy burdens amon g low- income households. Extensive simulation-based analysis r eveals that strategically staging electric HPs with existing oil h eating systems can lower overall energy costs by 19 and reduce emissions by 29 compared to the today s system and outper- forms all-heat-pump strategy for economic savings. By comb ining a generalizable, community-centric assessment framework with data-driven case study insights, this work offers a practic al tool for utilities, community stakeholders and policymakers to work toward equitable and sustainable energy transitions. Index Terms Energy transition, Carbon emission, Heat pumps, Energy burden, Energy poverty, Techno-economic, Mi - crogrids I. I NTRODUCTION The global energy sector is undergoing a fundamental shift from fossil fuel-based systems toward decarbonized energy solutions in response to climate change, as outlined in the 2 015 Paris Agreement. Renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, and biomass are increasingly replacing traditional fossil fuel and nuclear power generation 1 . Over the past decade, Corresponding author: Jayashree Yadav. Jayashree Yadav and Mads Almassalkhi are with the College of Engineering and Mathematical Science; Gund Institute for E nviron- ment, University of Vermont, Burlington 05401, USA (e-mail : jya- dav uvm.edu;malmassa uvm.edu). Ingemar Mathiasson is Department of Energy, Northwest Arct ic Borough, Kotzebue 99752, Alaska, USA (e-mail:imathiasson nwabor. org). Bindu Panikkar is with Rubenstein School of the Environment and Natural Resources; Gund Institute for Environment, University of V ermont, Burlington 05401, USA. (e-mail:Bindu.Panikkar uvm.edu).research on green energy transitions has grown substantial ly, addressing the pace of transitions 2 , 3 , 4 , alternati ve pathways 5 , 6 , 7 , and the geographic dimensions of energy transitions 8 , 9 . Transition scenarios vary sig niﬁ- cantly across regions, particularly in extreme climates wh ere infrastructure, resource availability, and energy costs p resent unique challenges 9 . Remote northern integrated energy communities face dis- tinct technical, economic, and social barriers to adopting renewable energy 10 . These communities often rely on iso- lated diesel-powered microgrids, resulting in high electr icity costs, supply chain vulnerabilities, and carbon-intensiv e power generation 11 . Additionally, heating demand in such regi ons can be 1.5 to 2 times higher than electricity demand 12 , further increasing dependence on imported fuels. The extre me climate marked by extended summer daylight and prolonged winter darkness adds complexity to renewable deployment, storage strategies, and grid reliability. These unique con ditions require integrated assessment frameworks that consider no t only technical and economic aspects, but also environmenta l sustainability and social equity. To support effective decision-making, community-centric assessment frameworks that capture multi-sectoral intera ctions are essential 13 . Much of the existing literature focuses on techno-economic analysis of speciﬁc technologies, such as photovoltaic thermal systems 14 , electric vehicle charg ers 15 , or rooftop PV 16 . While informative, these studies o ften overlook broader environmental and social considerations . For example, 17 , 18 include environmental criteria but exc lude social dimensions, whereas 19 focus on socio-economic indicators without addressing grid performance. Though so me studies incorporate multiple dimensions, such as 20 , whi ch evaluates hybrid energy systems in Chad, they emphasize optimal sizing over real-time energy management and lack in - tegration of end-use technologies like heat pumps or demand - side ﬂexibility. Moreover, many analyses are simulation-b ased and not grounded in real-world data. Among the strategies for decarbonization, electriﬁcation of end-use sectors such as transportation and space heating plays a vital role. Heat pumps, in particular, offer signiﬁc ant potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while improvi ng energy efﬁciency 21 . Studies have shown their beneﬁts in reducing emissions 22 , 23 , enhancing grid ﬂexibilit y 2 ULWHULD VVHVVPHQW 6 VWHP 0RGHO (QHUJ ÁRZ PRGHO 2SWLPDO HQHUJ GLVSDWFK7UDQVLWLRQ SDWKZD V 7UDQVLWLRQ VFRUH7LPH VHULHV GDWD0XOWL ULWHULD HFLVLRQ QDO VLV 1RUPDOL DWLRQ 8WLOLW IXQFWLRQ7HFKQRORJLFDO ,QIUDVWUXFWXUH XSJUDGH 5HOLDELOLW (FRQRPLF 5HWDLO HOHFWULFLW UDWH (OHFWULFLW 6XEVLG YHUDJH HQHUJ FRVW (QYLURQPHQWDO 2 H HPLVVLRQ LU TXDOLW 6RFLDO (QHUJ EXUGHQ (QHUJ SRYHUW Fig. 1. Transition pathways assessment framework 24 , 25 , and lowering operational costs 21 , 26 . How- ever, widespread adoption also presents challenges, inclu d- ing high upfront costs, grid integration issues, and energy equity concerns 27 , 28 . Notably, many studies assume constant coefﬁcients of performance (COP) for heat pumps, which can misrepresent their performance in cold climates 22 , 23 , 25 . Recent ﬁndings underscore the importance of temperature-dependent COPs to accurately assess heatin g system economics and performance 29 . The key contributions of this manuscript to address theses research gsps are as follows: Develops a comprehensive techno-economic, environmental , and social (TEES) assessment framework to evaluate energy transition pathways that can integrate intelligent energy de- vices and optimization-based coordination of energy asset s. Applies the framework to a detailed case study of a remote community in Alaska, evaluating the TEES impacts of
__label__energy	1 Please cite this article in press as: P.T. Metzger, Space development and space science together, an historic opportunity, Sp ace Policy (2016), http: dx.doi.org 10.1016 j.spacepol.2016.08.004 2016. This manuscript version is made available under a Creative Commons Attribution -NonCommercial - NoDerivatives 4.0 International License , https: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 Space Development and Space Science Together , an Historic Opportunity Philip T. Metzger Florida Space Institute, University of Central Florida, 12354 Research Parkway, Orlando, FL 3282 6, USA philip.metzger ucf.edu Abstract The national space programs have an historic opportunity to help solve the global- scale economic and environmental problems of Earth while becoming more effective at science through the use of space resources . Space programs will be more cost -effective when they work to establish a supply chain in space, mining and manufacturing then replicating the assets of the supply chain so it grows to larger capacity. This has become achievable because of advances in robotics an d artificial intelligence. It is roughly estimated that developing a lunar outpost that relies upon and also develop s the supply chain will cost about 1 3 or less of the existing annual budgets of the national space programs . It will require a sustained commitment of several decades to complete, during which time science and exploration become increasingly effective. At the end, this space industry will capable of address ing global- scale challenges including limited resources, clean energy, economic development, and preservation of the environment. Other potential solutions, including nuclear fusion and terrestrial renewable energy sources , do not address the root problem of our limited globe and there are real questions whether they will be inadequate or too late . While industry in space likewise cannot provide perfect assurance, it is uniquely able to solve the root problem , and it gives us an important chance that we should grasp . What makes this such an historic opportunity is that the spac e-based solution is obtainable as a side -benefit of doing space science and exploration within their existing budgets . Thinking pragmatically, it may take some time for policymakers to agree that setting up a complete supply chain is an achievable goal, so this paper describes a strategy of incremental progress. The most crucial part of this strategy is establishing a water economy by mining on the Moon and asteroids to manufacture rocket propellant. Technologies that support a water economy will play an important role leading toward space development. 1. Introduction Because of recent technological advances it has now become practical and affordable to establish a complete, robotic , industrial supply chain in space, enabling great science while promis ing tremendous benefit s back on Earth 1 . Some of the benefits (mostly in space) occur in the early phase of establishing this industry, while more dramatic benefits occur after it becomes self -sufficient so that no further material need be launched from Earth and it can be scaled -up to great throughput. In this paper the end-state shall be called a Self- sufficient Replicating Space Industry, or SRSI. The main challenge for this Please cite this article in pr ess as: P.T. Metzger, Space development and space science together, an historic opportunity, Space Policy (2016), http: dx.doi.org 10.1016 j.spacepol.2016.08.004 2016. This manuscript version is made available under a Creative Commons Attribution -NonCommercial - NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, https: creativecommons.org licenses by -nc-nd 4.0 2 concept is neither technology nor cost but simply convincing people it is realistic . In the 1970s Gerard K. O Neill proposed orbiting space colonies, each with 10,000 residents who would manufacture solar power stations to beam clean energy to Earth at a profit. Senator William Proxmire said of the concept, It s the best argument yet for chopping NASA s funding to the bone. As Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee responsible for NASA s appropriations, I say not a pe nny for this nutty fantasy... 2 . Likely, many people will have the same reaction to a program of bootstrapping SRSI . To be pragmatic, we may consider this to be a three -state program as shown in Table 1. Stage 1 is not a formal program but rather the combined activity of the space development community (bot h inside and outside government). It includes activities that (1) contr ibute to space industry, (2) can be justified on their own economic merit and therefore funded by whatever means are available , public or private , and (3) help convince policymakers to embrace SRSI. A strategy for Stage 1 activities is discussed toward the end of this paper . They contribute to space industry by maturing the necessary technologies, by establishing infrastructure in space that lowers the cost of operating in space ( so then Stage 2 can be accomplished for less cost) , by demonstrating to policymakers and the public the many benefits of space industry, and by building conviction among policymakers that the SRSI concept is feasible . The robotics revolution already occurring in terrestrial industry will also help show that SRSI is feasible . Ideally, Stage 2 would begin today. There is no reason to have Stage 1 except for the fact that Stage 2 is not yet funded, so we must take practical steps to help convince policymakers to begin Stage 2. Table 1. Three Stages of Space Industry Stage Economics Leadership Goals Duration 1 Each activity justified on its own merits Amorphous 1. Make incremental progress in technology 2. Lower cost of operating in space 3. Convince policymakers to fund SRSI Until leaders are convinced 2 Focused, Multi -decade investment Coalition of Nations Intentionally bootstrap SRSI 2 to 4 decades 3 Payback of prior investments Coalition of Nations Benefit from SRSI Perpetual A model showing how Stage 2 can be done affordably was presented by Metzger et al .s 1 and will be briefly summarize here. We now know that the Moon and Near Earth Asteroids have all the raw resources necessary for an industrial supply chain
__label__energy	Energy-Aware Predictive Motion Planning for Autonomous Vehicles Using a Hybrid Zonotope Constraint Representation Joshua A. Robbins, Andrew F. Thompson, Sean Brennan, and Herschel C. Pangborn Abstract Uncrewed aerial systems have tightly coupled energy and motion dynamics which must be accounted for by onboard planning algorithms. This work proposes a strategy for coupled motion and energy planning using model predictive control (MPC). A reduced-order linear time-invariant model of coupled energy and motion dynamics is presented. Constrained zonotopes are used to represent state and input constraints, and hybrid zonotopes are used to represent non-convex con- straints tied to a map of the environment. The structures of these constraint representations are exploited within a mixed- integer quadratic program solver tailored to MPC motion planning problems. Results apply the proposed methodology to coupled motion and energy utilization planning problems for 1) a hybrid-electric vehicle that must restrict engine usage when flying over regions with noise restrictions, and 2) an electric package delivery drone that must track waysets with both position and battery state of charge requirements. By leveraging the structure-exploiting solver, the proposed mixed- integer MPC formulations can be implemented in real time. I. I NTRODUCTION There has been a rising interest in the potential of au- tonomous electric and hybrid-electric uncrewed aerial sys- tems (UAS) in the aviation industry. Applications include aerial package delivery vehicles 1 and air taxis or am- bulances for urban air mobility (UAM) 2 , 3 . Energy usage and environmental constraints, such as restrictions on aircraft noise, present significant technological challenges for these systems 3 . To address these challenges, autonomous planning algorithms must be able to account for energy utilization in addition to vehicle motion. A. Gaps in the Literature Existing work on energy-aware planning has focused on incorporating energy considerations into high-level path planning algorithms, often using graph-based approaches such as A or Dijkstra s algorithm 4 . Graph search algo- rithms are used to perform high-level, energy-aware planning for hybrid-electric UAS under energy and noise constraints in 5 7 , and they are applied to energy-constrained planning for package delivery drones in 8 , 9 . However, there are several key challenges when attempting to integrate high-level planners with lower-level path followers, such as discrepancies in model assumptions between the path planner and follower 10 . Joshua A. Robbins, Andrew F. Thompson, Sean Brennan, and Her- schel C. Pangborn are with the Department of Mechanical Engineer- ing, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802 USA (e-mail: jrobbins psu.edu, thompson psu.edu, sbrennan psu.edu, hcpangborn psu.edu ). This research was supported by Peraton.Intermediate-level motion planning algorithms are often used to bridge the gap between high-level planners and low- level controllers. The role of such algorithms is to locally plan system trajectories, typically using a reduced-order model of the system 11 . Introducing energy considerations into these intermediate-level planners has received compara- tively little attention in the literature despite the extensive literature on UAS motion planning when energy system dynamics are not considered 12 . Energy and motion dynamics have been incorporated into Model Predictive Control (MPC) formulations, which are often used for motion planning 13 . Energy dynamics were included in a hierarchical MPC controller with one spatial di- mension and convex state constraints in 14 , and a terminal battery state of charge constraint was used within an MPC path planner follower in 15 . In 16 , MPC is used for UAS motion planning and control. Here, battery state of charge is maximized while adhering to obstacle avoidance constraints that are imposed using potential functions, and the system dynamics are linearized about an equilibrium condition. The resulting energy-aware motion plans may be vulnerable to entrapment in suboptimal local minima given the nonlinear programming formulation and local linearization. Increasingly, MPC optimization problems for motion plan- ning are formulated as mixed-integer programs (MIPs) be- cause non-convex constraint sets (e.g., an obstacle map) can be exactly represented in MIPs and for mixed-integer convex programs convergence to a global optimum is guar- anteed 17 . MIPs are NP-hard 18 however, which inhibits the application of these methods in a real-time context. B. Contributions This paper presents an efficient method for energy-aware motion planning of uncrewed aerial systems. A mixed- integer set representation, the hybrid zonotope , is used to exactly represent a non-convex constraint set that defines obstacles and regions with location-specific noise restric- tions. A reduced-order, linear time-invariant model of the coupled UAS energy and motion dynamics is developed that is globally valid and conservative with respect to planned energy usage. Motion and energy states are coupled via a polytopic constraint set, and a low-complexity constrained zonotope representation of this set is presented. An MPC controller is formulated that plans system trajectories which adhere to specifications on both the motion and energy states. A mixed-integer quadratic program (MIQP) solver developed in our previous work 19 , 20 (previously applied for motion planning only and not energy management) isarXiv:2411.03189v2 eess.SY 15 Nov 2024 leveraged to efficiently solve these MPC optimization prob- lems by exploiting the structure of the hybrid zonotope and constrained zonotope set representations. Case studies show how noise-restricted areas and terminal energy constraints can be considered by the proposed controller and highlight the utility of jointly optimizing energy and motion plans. II. P RELIMINARIES A. Notation Vectors are denoted with boldface letters. Sets are de- noted with calligraphic letters. Vertex representation (V- rep) polytopes are denoted in terms of their vertices vias P v1,v2, ... . Empty brackets denote the absence of a quantity. Expressions using the symbol are expanded using all possible permuatations. For instance, a b c expands to the inequalities a b c , a b c , a b c , a b c .(1) B. Zonotopes, Constrained Zonotopes, and Hybrid Zono- topes As will be seen in Sec. III, constrained zonotopes and hybrid zonotopes are used to represent constraint sets in our MPC formulation. The definitions of these set representations are briefly reviewed here. A setZ Rnis a zonotope if Gc
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Dynamic Incentive Strategies for Smart EV Charging Stations: An LLM-Driven User Digital Twin Approach Yichen Sun Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China yichensun mail.shiep.edu.cnChenggang Cui Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China cgcui shiep.edu.cnChuanlin Zhang Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China clzhang shiep.edu.cn Chunyang Gong Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai, China gongchunyang shiep.edu.cn Abstract This paper presents an enhanced electric vehicle de- mand response system based on large language models, aimed at optimizing the application of vehicle-to-grid technology. By lever- aging an large language models-driven multi-agent framework to construct user digital twins integrated with multidimensional user profile features, it enables deep simulation and precise prediction of users charging and discharging decision-making patterns. Additionally, a data- and knowledge-driven dynamic incentive mechanism is proposed, combining a distributed optimization model under network constraints to optimize the grid-user interaction while ensuring both economic viability and security. Simulation results demonstrate that the approach significantly improves load peak-valley regulation and charging discharging strategies. Experimental validation highlights the system s sub- stantial advantages in load balancing, user satisfaction and grid stability, providing decision-makers with a scalable V2G manage- ment tool that promotes the sustainable, synergistic development of vehicle-grid integration. Index Terms Electric Vehicles, Demand Response, User Pro- file , Vehicle-to-Grid, Large Language Models I. I NTRODUCTION Electric vehicles (EVs) serve as essential elements in de- mand response (DR) systems, acting as flexible distributed energy resources that facilitate clean energy transition and emission reduction 1 . The integration of EVs with the energy sector via vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology is emphasized by 2 for its potential to enhance wind energy utilization and decrease CO2 emissions. With the rapid proliferation of Electric Vehicles (EVs), grid stability and energy distribution confront unprecedented challenges, which has propelled the development of advanced charging infrastructures and intelligent management strategies. Researchers have proposed decentralized coordination mecha- nisms utilizing smart algorithms and game theory to optimize Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) applications. In 3 , a method for providing V2G regulation services through distributed coordi- nation of electric vehicles is explored, indicating that intelli- gently scheduling charging times can balance load fluctuations,improve voltage profiles, and reduce network losses without necessitating additional investments. Reference 4 further advances this by proposing optimal schemes for electric ve- hicle charging and discharging schedules using metaheuristic algorithms, emphasizing the significance of V2G approaches in reducing costs and supporting the grid. Concurrently, 5 investigates decentralized vehicle-grid control strategies for primary frequency regulation considering charging demands, demonstrating how these strategies enhance the grid s adapt- ability to renewable energy fluctuations. EV users are pivotal in the successful deployment of V2G technology. Research focused on optimizing V2G integration through demand response employs real-time pricing and con- siders user preferences, using incentives or price signals to encourage participation 6 , 7 . This aims to balance grid loads, reduce peak demand, and improve societal welfare and grid efficiency. However, these studies often overlook individual behavioral diversity. Recent research highlights that psychological and economic factors, such as financial status, risk preference, and price elasticity, significantly influence user participation decisions 8 , 9 . By applying psychology and behavioral economics frameworks, In 10 ,researchers have revealed differences among user groups in demand response scenarios, though this approach adds complexity and may limit broader applicability due to the nuanced differences among users . In this paper, an enhanced Electric vehicles demand re- sponse system has been proposed, aiming to promote orderly charging and the application of V2G technology. This system employs a multi-agent framework driven by a large language model (LLM), which comprehensively considers users basic information, psychological, and economic factors to generate precise user profiles. By integrating real-time data from the environment and electric vehicle charging station (EVCS), the system dynamically adjusts strategies and conducts an in-depth analysis of EV user behavior to predict users willingness toarXiv:2504.01423v1 eess.SY 2 Apr 2025 participate in DR. The system, through the analysis of user behavior and psychological drivers, achieves a profound understanding of personalized needs, thereby overcoming the limitations of traditional DR methods that neglect user heterogeneity. By employing dynamically adjusted economic incentives, psycho- logical barriers to user participation in V2G programs are effectively addressed, balancing user engagement with load fluctuation control while significantly reducing the high costs associated with V2G pilot projects. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: 1) User Behavior Simulation: A multi-agent system driven by LLMs is proposed to analyze EV user behavior. The system features a User Profile Generation Agent, consisting of an Information Analysis Agent and a User Psychological Analysis Agent. The former con- structs a basic profile from personal data, while the latter applies psychological and economic theories to infer preferences and behavioral patterns, producing a comprehensive profile. A Decision-Making Agent then integrates these profiles with real-time data on EVCS status, environmental conditions, and incentive policies to derive optimal strategies. This collaborative frame- work enables refined behavioral modeling and precise decision-making analysis. 2) Dynamic Incentive Mechanism: A DR system enhanced by LLMs is proposed, which not only considers users basic information but also deeply analyzes psycholog- ical traits and economic conditions to generate precise behavioral decisions and simulate user behavior in depth. Through the dynamic adjustment of economic incentive mechanisms, the system effectively promotes the orderly charging of EVs and participation in V2G services, optimizing the grid load distribution while avoiding the emergence of new peak loads caused by excessive incentives. II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION AND PROBLEM STATEMENT A. Electric Vehicle Charging Station Model The study introduces an innovative model for an EVCS that incorporates both charging and discharging services. The EVCS features multiple charging points, and EVs actively communicate their current battery state ( SOCc n), target battery state ( SOCt n), and their distance from the station prior to arrival. This information allows the EVCS to predict charging demand and estimate the required charging time ( τc n) accord- ingly. The charging energy demand for each vehicle, Ec n, is calculated based on the difference between the target and current battery states, as well as the vehicle s battery capacity,
__label__energy	1 Diffusion Model Based Probabilistic Day-ahead Load Forecasting Ding Lin, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Han Guo, Graduate Student Member, IEEE , Jianhui Wang, Fellow, IEEE Abstract Accurate probabilistic load forecasting is crucial for maintaining the safety and stability of power systems. However, the mainstream approach, multi-step prediction, must be improved by cumulative errors and latency issues, which limits its effectiveness in probabilistic day-ahead load forecasting (PDALF). To overcome these challenges, we introduce DALNet, a novel denoising diffusion model designed to generate load curves rather than relying on direct prediction. By shifting the focus to curve generation, DALNet captures the complex distribution of actual load time-series data under specific conditions with greater fidelity. To further enhance DALNet, we propose the temporal multi-scale attention block (TMSAB), a mechanism designed to integrate both positional and temporal information for improved forecasting precision. Furthermore, we utilize kernel density estimation (KDE) to reconstruct the distribution of generated load curves and employ KL divergence to compare them with the actual data distribution. Experimental results demonstrate that DALNet excels in load forecasting accuracy and offers a novel perspective for other predictive tasks within power systems. Index Terms Diffusion model, probabilistic forecasting, atten- tion mechanism. I. I NTRODUCTION DAY-ahead electrical load forecasting plays a key role in balancing electricity supply and demand, offering valuable insights for planning, construction, and operational decision-making in power systems. With the increasing inte- gration of renewable energy, flexible resources, and advance- ments in electricity markets and demand response mecha- nisms, load forecasting has become more complex due to heightened volatility and uncertainty. In this evolving land- scape, accurate and reliable probabilistic day-ahead load fore- casting serves as a crucial tool for mitigating uncertainties and ensuring safe operational control within the power system. Currently, day-ahead forecasting can be broadly categorized into three methods. The first method is rolling forecasting, the second involves building individual models for each time point, and the third is multi-step prediction. The earliest methods for rolling forecasts employed statistical models like the autoregressive integrated moving average model 1 and the multiple linear regression model 2 . These linear models often need to catch up in capturing nonlinear relationships accurately. To address this issue, researchers have explored machine learning models such as support vector machines 3 and random forests 4 . Despite their advantages, traditional machine learning algorithms sometimes need help modeling complex nonlinear relationships and managing large datasets effectively. Consequently, neural networks have gained signif- icant attention due to their superior performance in handlingcomplex nonlinear mappings. For instance, Bi-directional long short-term memory (Bi-LSTM) 5 and feedback neural net- work 6 have been employed for rolling forecasts. Rolling forecasts often focus on point predictions and face the issue of error accumulation. Researchers have started modeling each time step individually for day-ahead load fore- casting to address these challenges. 7 developed 24 multiple linear regression models, one for each hour of the day, for day-head forecasting. In addition, scholars often use neural networks to implement this method, such as the attention mechanism 8 . Furthermore, the second day-ahead load fore- casting method can be easily extended to probabilistic fore- casting methods through techniques like quantile regression (QR) 9 and KDE 10 . Y . Wang et al. 11 extended LSTM- based point forecasting to the quantile regression LSTM to handle the non-stationary and stochastic features of individual consumers. Taking the uncertainty of low-voltage load data into account to improve the accuracy of the probabilistic forecasting, Z. Cao et al. 12 proposed a hybrid ensemble learning model based on the deep belief network. X. Liu et al. 13 proposed an ordinary differential equation network combined with QR to capture the uncertainties. M. Sun et al. 14 proposed a probabilistic day-ahead net load forecasting method that combined Bayesian theory and LSTM to capture the epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty of load data. Although the second method can avoid the accumulation of prediction errors, independent modeling of each time point needs to pay attention to the relationships between different times of the day, which is a significant limitation for capturing intra-day load patterns with apparent regularities. The third method, multi-step prediction, has emerged to address this issue and has become the mainstream forecasting approach. By utilizing a transformer to capture the periodicity in load data, B. Jiang et al. 15 achieved multi-step forecasting. To improve the accuracy of day-ahead load forecasting of the Transformer, K. Qu et al. 16 proposed a novel model excelling in predictions for special days such as weekends and holidays. For day-ahead probabilistic load forecasting, 17 first utilized ensemble learning for point forecasting, followed by Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods to generate the distribution of the forecasted day and achieve probabilistic forecasting. 18 leveraged a hybrid approach, combining Convolutional Neural Networks and Gated Recurrent Units for load forecasting, followed by QR to achieve probabilistic prediction. Gaussian Mixture Model 19 and KDE 20 are also used to achieve probabilistic forecasting. Although researchers widely apply multi-step predictionarXiv:2503.06697v1 eess.SY 9 Mar 2025 2 methods, these methods inherently experience latency issues, which become particularly pronounced when dealing with rapidly changing data 21 . Therefore, new prediction methods are needed to address the shortcomings of error accumulation, lack of consideration for intra-day correlations, and the latency issue in the three methods above. To this end, we propose a prediction method based on conditional diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM), a generative model, to generate load data for day-ahead forecasting directly. DDPMs have demonstrated remarkable abilities in learning complex, high-dimensional data distributions and generating realistic samples. By adding Gaussian noise in a forward process and then learning to reverse it, DDPMs can effectively recover the original data distribution, making them highly effective for generative tasks. The decision to use DDPMs stems from their unique ca- pabilities. Unlike rolling forecasting, DDPMs can generate an entire curve without depending on the generated value from the previous time step, which avoids error accumulation. Additionally, by considering the interconnections between intra-day loads, DDPMs establish a probabilistic distribution for the entire day to address intra-day
__label__energy	A Self -Updating K -Contingency List for Smart Grid System Sohini Roy, Arunabha Sen School of Computing, Informatics and Decision System Engineering Arizona State University Tempe -85281, Arizona, USA Email: sohini.roy, asen asu.edu Abstract A reliable decision making by the operator in a smart grid is contingent upon correct analysis of intra -and- interdependencies between its entities and also on accurate identification of the most critical entities at a given point of time. A measurement based self -updating contingency list can provide real-time information to the operator about current system condition which can help the operator to take the required action. In this paper, the und erlying intra -and-interdependencies between entities for a given power -communication network is captured using a dependency model called Modified Implicative Interdependency Model (MIIM) 1 . Given an integer K, the event -driven self -updating contingency list problem gives the list of K-most critical entities, failure of which maximizes the network damage at the current time. Owing to the problem being NP complete, a fast heuristic method to generate a real -time contingency list using system measurements is provided here . The validation of the work is done by comparing the contingency list obtained for different K values using the MIIM model on a smart grid of IEEE 14 -Bus system wit h that obtained by simulating the smart grid using a co -simulation system formed by MATPOWER and Java Network Simulator (JNS). The results also indicate that the network damage predicted by both the ILP based solution 2 and the proposed heuristic solutio n using MIIM are more realistic compared to that obtained using another dependency model called Implicative Interdependency Model (IIM) 3 . Keywords Smart Grid, MIIM model, contingency list, Inter Dependency Relations (IDRs), heuristic solution . I. INTRODUCT ION The smart grid system can be viewed as a two -layered network where one layer is composed of the power entities and the other layer is formed with communication entities. Yet, both the layers are coupled together by complex interdependencies in order to function as a single system. Moreover, the entities of each layer of the network also exhibits intra -dependencies between them. Such intra as well as interdependencies are critical in a smart grid system as a failure of one or more entities in each layer can lead to a cascading failure of multiple entities in the whole system. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the dependencies between different entities of the smart grid and identify the most critical entities, damage of which can result in the fail ure of maximum number of entities in the smart grid system. Such entities can be identified as the most vulnerable entities upon which the operability of the smart grid system is contingent and a list of such entities in the system is termed as the conting ency list 4 . Appropriate protection of the entities in the contingency list can save the smart grid from a catastrophe. However, in order to identify the contingency list, (i) the design of each layer of network should be clear to the researchers, and (ii) there should be an appropriate model that can represent the complex intra - and-interdependencies between the entities in the smart grid. In 2 , a simplistic and easy Boolean Logic based dependency model, termed as the Implicative Interdependency Model (IIM) is proposed which very accurately captures the complex interdependencies between the entities in a critical infrastructure. Yet, IIM also has drawbacks like (i) ignoring the effects of failure of entities in the Information and Communication Technol ogy (ICT) layer, (ii) lack of ICT network design information and (iii) binary nature; that means an entity can either fail or operate only and it does not take into account any reduced level of operation for the entities in the system. In 8 , a rough idea about the ICT network for smart grid is provided but it also lacks the detailed description of the ICT design. A Modified Implicative Interdependency Model (MIIM) proposed in 1 takes into account all such drawbacks and provides a clear picture of the sm art grid network design by taking inputs from a utility in the U.S. Southwest. It also considers different operational levels of the entities and model the complex dependencies using multi -valued Boolean Logic based equations called Interdependency Relatio ns (IDRs). The contingency list can be obtained for a smart grid system, just by solving these IDRs. Now, according to 1 , the IDRs are updated if any failure or change of operational level occurs to the entities. Therefore, the contingency list for a sma rt grid in a steady state will also differ from the list when some failure takes place in the system and the IDRs are changed. Thus, an event -driven self -updating contingency list is required to offer resilience to the grid. Again, since the contingency li st keeps on changing with any event of failure in the system, it is difficult to harden all the entities in updated the contingency list every time and the operator might have some budget constraints for hardening the entities in the list. Such budget cons traint can either be monetary or availability of resources. If the current budget of hardening is K - entities for the operator, then it is essential to identify the K -most vulnerable entities in the network at the current time. This K can be any integer val ue, less than the total number of entities in the smart grid. In this paper, a novel method to generate a self - updating K -contingency list at for a smart grid is proposed. It is already proved in 2 that the problem of identifying the K - contingency list i s NP -complete. Therefore, an Integer Linear Programming (ILP) based solution for the problem is provided in this paper using the MIIM IDRs. Finally, a validation of the results obtained from the proposed method is done by co - simulating the two layers
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__energy	1 Can models for long -term decarbonization policies guarantee security of power supply? A perspective from gas and power s ector coupling Andrea Antenuccia, Pedro Crespo del Granadob , Blazhe Gjorgieva, Giovanni Sansavinia a Reliability and Risk Engineering Laboratory, Institute of Energy Technology, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, Leonhardstrasse 21, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland b Dep. of Industrial Economics and Technology Management, NTNU, 7491, Trondheim, Norway ABSTRACT The assessment of adequacy and security of the energy system requires the detailed knowledge of physical and operational characteristics. In contrast, studies conce rning energy transitions employ stylized models that oftentimes ignore the technical properties but have a lasting influence on long - term energy policies. This paper investigates the gap between energy system planning and operational models by linking these two perspectives : (1) a long -term investment model with low spatial resolution and high level of aggregation, and (2) a spatially resolved system security model that captures the interdependences between the backbone of the electric power sector, i.e ., the electricity and the gas infrastructures. We assess EU decarbonization pathways of the electricity sector towards 2050 by integrating the investment decisions of the long -term planning model and the safety performance of the resulting system operatio ns via the security assessment model. In a large RES deployment scenario, we investigate two flexibility options: gas power plants and cross -country transmission expansion. Using the integrated model, we analyze how the adequacy and security of supply unde r extreme short - term operational conditions impact the long -term planning of the energy system and the investment decision -making. We provide country specific recommendations for UK. Results indicate weaknesses in the gas -electricity system and suggest imp rovements on capacity allocation. Keywords: Adequacy and security; Energy transition; Gas-electricity nexus ; Stochastic modelling; Long - term planning; Multi-model framework 1. Introduction Modelling and analyzing energy systems is becoming increasingly challenging due to the growing need to capture the interdependencies among various energy sectors and harmonizing different research viewpoints. The energy transition should not only encompass the analysis and propo sition of long -term objectives and decarbonization alternatives but incorporate multi -layer energy system approaches that consider: 1) substitution effects among energy carriers, 2) complementariness in different models geographical and temporal resolutio n assumptions, 3) a practical and reasonable level of technical detail and system security assessments, and 4) reciprocal effects and dependencies among energy sectors (buildings, transport, grids), and others. For example, in 1 authors highlight some modelling limitations on using long -term investment models as they lack technical details and aggregated Corresponding author s: Email: sansavig ethz.ch (G. Sansavini); pedro ntnu.no (P. Crespo del Granado) 2 geographical and temporal coverage compared to more technical models (e.g. power system approaches, see also 2 ). In this regard, research on synergies and reciprocal e ffects (linkage or combin ation ) between energy models has been referred as one of the next frontiers in energy system modelling 3 . Linking or combining model s allows to harmonize and validate assumptions, exploit model capabilities (address model s weaknesses or stress strengths), provide more robust assessments, and challenge models boundaries by addressing cross -disciplinary research questions. To this end, in this paper, we investigate energy carrier integration by combining electricity and gas models along with a long -term investment model designe d for energy transition analyses. The core objective is to use the technically detailed (country specific) electricity -gas model developed for system security assessment in order to provide feedback to the aggregated (long -term EU level) investment model. Based on this modelling framework, we analyze the adequacy and sys tem security of the electricity infrastructure under different decarbonization pathways for the EU and the impacts to individual countries. For this analysis , we assume that gas -fired power plants (GFPP) will play an important role on balancing a large -scale deployment of wind and solar generation in Europe . In this regard , security of supply will face new challenges with the increasing share of renewable energy sources (RES). Planning for the security of supply faces additional challenges when the interdependencies between the electric and gas networks are considered. The interdependencies originate from the use of the GFPP to compensate for the volatile nature of the RES, where the former is supplied by the gas network. For example, s trong interdependencies existing in electric and gas network operations noted by 5, 6 , may lead to supply shortage to customers in both systems. This was the case in the US, after a cold weather event in 2011, when gas curtailments to GFPP and poor quality of gas supply accounted for 10 of production losses, i.e. 120 MWh 7 . Furthermore, such interdependencies are expected to be more prominent, as renewables become the largest source of power supply 8, 9 . The role of inter -connector capacities and of their expansion between neighboring countries in Europe has been investigated in 10 for the ability to mitigate the variability of integrated large -scale renewables in a cost -effective manner . Recently, studies claiming the feasibility of 100 renewable power systems have been critically reviewed 11 , and, in fact, the case for feasibility is deemed inadequate for the formation of responsible policies. This has opened a stimulating debate in the do main of 100 renewable power systems about methodological and modelling choices 12 . In the face of the transitio n to a 100 RES supply scenario , GFPP are expected to balance the volatility of RES if no other supply flexible options are available (e.g., biomass or storage) 13, 14 . The interactions between gas and electric infrastructures occur via GFPP and electricity -driven compressors. These linking points couple operational dynamics that evolve on different time -scales and may increase the vulner ability of both infrastructures. The risk of disruption to the supply to customers due to interdependencies is connected to several factors, such as the characteristics and the amount of GFPP, the supply capability of the
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	1 Accurate experimental ( p, ρ, T ) data of natural gas mixtures for the assessment of reference equations of state when dealing with hydrogen -enriched natural gas Roberto Hernández -Gómez1, Dirk Tuma2, Daniel Lozano -Martín1, César R. Chamorro1 1 Grupo de Termodinámica y Calibración (TERMOCAL), Dpto. Ingeniería Energética y Fluidomecánica, Escuela de Ingenierías Industriales, Universidad de Valladolid, Paseo del Cauce, 59, E -47011 Valladolid, Spain. 2 BAM Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -prüfung, D -12200 Berlin, Germany. Abstract The GERG -2008 equation of state is the approved ISO standard (ISO 20765 -2) for the calculation of thermophysical properties of natural gas mixtures . The composition of natural gas can vary considerably due to the diversity of origin. Further diversification was generated by adding hydrogen, biogas, or other non-conventional energy gases. In this work, high-precision experimental ( p, ρ, T ) data for two gravimetrically prepared synthetic natural gas mixtures are reported . One mixture resemble d a conventional natural gas of 11 components (11M) with a nominal mixture composition (amount -of-substance fraction) of 0.8845 for methane as the matrix compound with the other compounds being 0.005 for oxygen, 0.04 for nitro gen, 0.015 for carbon dioxide, 0.04 for ethane, 0.01 for propane, 0.002 each for n - and isobutane, and ultimately 0.0005 each for isopentane, n -pentane, and n -hexane. The other mixture was a 13 -component hydrogen -enriched natural gas with a low calorific value featuring a nominal composition of 0.7885 for methane, 0.03 for hydrogen, 0.005 for helium, 0.12 for nitrogen, 0.04 for carbon dioxide, 0.0075 for ethane, 0.003 for propane, 0.002 each for n - and isobutane, and 0.0005 each for neopentane, isopentane, n -pentane, and n-hexane. Density measurements were performed in an isothermal operational mode at temperatures between 260 and 350 K and at pressures up to 20 MPa by using a single -sinker densimeter with magnetic suspension coupling. The data we re compared with the corresponding densities calculated from both GERG - 2008 and AGA8 -DC92 equation s of state to test their performance on real mixtures . The average absolute 2 deviation from GERG -2008 (AGA8 -DC92) is 0.027 (0.078 ) for 11M and 0.095 (0.062 ) for the 13-component H 2-enriched mixture, respectively. T he corresponding maximum relative deviation from GERG -2008 (AGA8 -DC92) amounts to 0.095 (0.127 ) for 11M and 0.291 (0.193 ) for the H 2- enriched mixture. Keywords: hydrogen -enriched natural gas; gravimetric preparation; single -sinker densimeter; reference equations of state; GERG -2008; AGA8 -DC92 Corresponding author e -mail: cescha eii.uva.es. Tel.: 34 983423756. ORCID: Roberto Hernández -Gómez: 0000 -0003 -1830 -1410 Dirk Tuma: 0000 -0002 -5713 -9746 Daniel Lozano -Martín : 0000 -0002 -2286 -0111 César R. Chamorro: 0000 -0001 -6902 -3778 3 1. Introduction The increasing global energy demand with its impact on mankind is a growing imperative for the development of alternative energy sources which truly fulfil the condition of sustainability. Initiated by the first oil crisis in 1973 1 , hydrogen is promoted as a sustainable alternative energy carrier in the implementation of energy policies that do not depend on fossil resources, or, in short, on carbon. The last years have seen a vibrant and continuously growing activity on all fields related. The concept of decarbonisation literally means to replace carbon atoms wit h hydrogen atoms. The book entitled The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities and Challenges by Ball and Wietschel published in 2009 highlights hydrogen comprehensively from a technical, environmental , and socioeconomic perspective 2 . At present, the global economy still runs largely on fossil fuels. In a long -term perspective, fossil fuels must develop away from energy into the raw material for producing chemical products. Hydrogen, however, naturally occurs in a bonded form and thus has first to be released by using energy, ideally from renewable sources 3 7 . An illustrative example is the so -called power -to-gas technique , that is the use of surplus electrical power to produce a gas fuel, where hydrogen is made by electrolysis 8 10 . One hydrogen -related approach that has been put forward for making a transition towards a carbon -free economy is adding hydrogen into existing natural gas transport and distribution systems 11 15 . Capocelli and De Falco have put it in an introductory book chapter Enriched methane is a ready solution for the transition towards the hydrogen economy 16 ; in other words, enriched methane is a pathway to introduce hydrogen in our established and consolidated energy infrastructure. Apart from plain economic figures, various technical aspects over the entire chain, such as safety, availability, storage, metering, equipment and operational parameters, efficiency, as well as material characteristics , have to be successfully addressed towards a full affirmation . These research activities manifested in a notable number of studies . Some recently published papers which particularly address the aforementioned issues for enriched methane are: experiments of turbulent explosions, focusing on the influence on mixture reactivity by Li et al. 17 and explosion studies of methane hydrogen mixtures by Lowesmith et al. 18 on safety; a study on transition pathways to future energy infrastructure by Maroufmashat and Fowler on availability 19 ; development of measuring standards to support fiscal metering by van der Veen et al. on analysis and metering 20 ; a comprehensive review on combustion 4 engines for H 2-enriched natural gas by Mehra et al. 21 , a study of low -calorific value coal gas combustion by Karyeyen and İlbaş 22,23 , and the studies investigating the effects of composition on engine performance, combustion , and emission by Hora and Agarwal 24 and Cellek and Pınarbaşı 25 , respectively , deal with equipment and operation. Due to the low calorific value of hydrogen on a volumetric basis, a virtual hydrogen -spiked energy gas would require a gas with about 80 of hydrogen to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide by 50 11 . The approved ISO standard (ISO 20765 -2) for the calculation of thermophysical properties of established natural gas -type mixtures
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__energy	Optimal price signal generation for demand-side energy management Seyed Shahabaldin Tohidi,a, , Henrik Madsena, Davide Calìaand Tobias K. S. Ritschela aDepartment of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical University of Denmark, Kgs. Lyngby, DK-2800, Denmark ARTICLE INFO Keywords : Price-demand relationship Flexibility Function Demand-side management Optimal price signals Model predictive control Price-responsive systems Electricity markets Smart Energy OSABSTRACT Renewable Energy Sources play a key role in smart energy systems. To achieve 100 renewable energy, utilizing the flexibility potential on the demand side becomes the cost-efficient option to balance the grid. However, it is not trivial to exploit these available capacities and flexibility options profitably. The amount of available flexibility is a complex and time-varying function of the price signal and weather forecasts. In this work, we use a Flexibility Function to represent the relationship between the price signal and the demand and investigate optimization problems for the price signal computation.Consequently,thisstudyconsidersthehigherandlowerlevelsinthehierarchyfromthe markets to appliances, households, and districts. This paper investigates optimal price generation via theFlexibilityFunctionandstudiesitsemploymentincontrollerdesignfordemand-sidemanagement, its capability to provide ancillary services for balancing throughout the Smart Energy Operating System,anditseffectonthephysicallevelperformance.Sequentialandsimultaneousapproachesfor computingthepricesignal,alongwithvariouscostfunctionsareanalyzedandcompared.Simulation results demonstrate the generated price penalty signal and its employment in a model predictive controller. 1. Introduction Adoption of Renewable Energy Sources (RESs) is a prominent step toward carbon neutralization, and conse- quently,isasolutiontomitigateglobalwarming.Connecting these new sources to the grid can bring new challenges due to their intermittence, fluctuating power generation, and de- pendency on environmental conditions 1, 2 . For instance, the output of wind turbines and photovoltaic (PV) panels is a complex function of many variables, like meteorolog- ical variables and dirtiness of blades or panels, and varies seasonally,daily,oratevenhigherfrequencies.Difficultyin predictingthesesourcesofpowergenerationcomplicatesthe energy management 3, 4, 5 . Different from the traditional energy management sys- tems, which are dependent on increasing the electricity supply to overcome the demand peaks, modern energy sys- temsrelyondemand-sidemanagement(DSM).Tothisend, demand loads are accommodated to the supply capacity throughout each hour of the day. This requires a permanent data transfer between the supply and demand sides 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 as well as a hierarchy of methods and models for aggregation,forecasting,controlandoptimization 12 .The entire hierarchical framework, which is entitled the Smart Energy OS (Operating System) ( 13, 14 ), has been used in several projects to activate demand-side flexibility; see for instance 15, 16, 17 . VariouslevelsandelementsofSmartEnergyOSarede- pictedinFigure1.Therequireddataandinformationtransfer betweentheelementsofthisframeworkleadstoahighlevel of complexity and indicates the need for a digitalization of theentireenergydomainasofferedbytheSmartEnergyOS. For the modern weather-driven energy system, methods for sshto dtu.dk (S.S. Tohidi, );hmad dtu.dk (H. Madsen); dcal dtu.dk (D. Calì); tobk dtu.dk (T.K.S. Ritschel) ORCID(s):0000-0002-4566-667X (S.S. Tohidi, );0000-0003-0690-3713 (H. Madsen); 0000-0002-5843-240X (T.K.S. Ritschel)connecting high-level grids and balancing challenges with the low-level flexible demand are needed 18 . This can be offered efficiently by enhancing the connection between the elements using a reliable model for the price-demand relationship 19, 20, 21 . A Flexibility Function (FF) is introduced as a key ele- ment to keep the different parts of Smart Energy OS con- nected. The FF is a stochastic model that represents the price-demand dynamics in energy systems. On one hand, it provides information on the load prediction and flexibil- ity potential for aggregators, grid operators, and balance- responsible parties, and on the other hand, it is capable of generating price signals for the electricity market and advancedcontrollersinenergymanagementsystems 22,23, 24, 25 . In this paper we will focus on power systems, but the Smart Energy OS is able efficiently to handle integrated energysystemsandsectorcoupling.Itisratherobviousthat sector coupling like power to heat and PtX, enhances the flexibility of the energy system and hence the possibilities for large-scale integration of fluctuating renewables. It is noted that when employing a nonlinear price- demand dynamical system, like the Flexibility Function, in various levels of the Smart Energy OS a methodology to guarantee stability is required. To take care of dynamic updates of FF, an Adaptive FF (AFF) is proposed in 26 . TheAFFtakesthetime-variationofprice-demanddynamics intoconsiderationandupdatesthepricesignalsuchthatthe errorbetweentheactualandpredicteddemandisminimized while stability is guaranteed. In this paper, we investigate optimal price generation via the FF and study its employment in controller design for demand-side management. The generated price penalty signal can then be utilized for ancillary services throughout the Smart Energy OS. In particular, we focus on the Smart Energy OS and its elements and their connections and in- troduce the capabilities of FF to enhance it. For instance, Page 1 of 13arXiv:2407.21759v1 eess.SY 31 Jul 2024 Optimal price signal generation Figure 1: The Smart Energy OS. we discuss demand predictability as a function of price, FF for grid balancing, and FF for physical level performance improvement. Sequential and simultaneous approaches for computingthepricesignalandprovidingancillaryservices, along with various cost functions are analyzed and com- pared.Thegeneratedoptimalpriceisthenutilizedinamodel predictive controller to improve cost efficiency by shifting the electricity load to some low electricity price periods of the day. This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 gives an overview of a Smart Energy OS and its components. Sec- tion3describestheconnectionbetweenvariouselementsof theenergysystem.InSection4,demandpredictionusingFF is introduced. In Section 5, optimal price generation using FF is investigated. Sections 6 and 7 discuss the benefits of using FF for the higher and lower levels of energy systems, respectively. Section 8 demonstrates the simulation results of optimal price generation. In Section 9, we discuss how pricesignalgenerationbasedonFFscanbeusedtoindirectly control other types of energy demand, and we use district heating as an example. Finally, a summary is given in Section 10. 2. Smart energy operating system Smartenergysystemsandtheirelementsforforecasting, control, and optimization constitute the so-called Smart Energy OS (SE-OS). The SE-OS describes the connection anddatatransferbetweeneachsegmentofthepowersystem, decision-making mechanisms, stability algorithms, etc.VariouselementsandlevelsofSE-OSaregiveninFigure 1. This figure divides the elements of the Smart Energy OS intofourlevels.Thetoplevelconsistsofelectricitymarkets, TransmissionSystemOperators(TSOs),DistributedSystem Operators (DSOs), and balance responsible parties (BRPs). Generally, energy management at this level is done for a country, region, or city. Their macroscopic point of view takes care of stability, performance, and electricity prices. Aggregators and related forecasting services are in the next level of OS. They are responsible for the energy man- agement in a city, district, micro-grid, or neighborhood and provide vital information required for energy management andcontrolatthismediumlevel.Neighborhoodsandbuild- ings, renewable energy resources like large-scale PVs, and wind turbines can also be
__label__energy	A Lagrangian-Informed Long-Term Dispatch Policy for Coupled Hydropower and Photovoltaic Systems Eliza Cohn, Ning Qi, Upmanu Lall, Bolun Xu Earth and Environmental Engineering Columbia University New York, USA ec3766, nq2176, ula2, bx2177 columbia.edu Abstract This paper presents a long-term dispatch framework for coupled hydropower and floating photovoltaic systems. We introduce a temporal decomposition algorithm based on par- tial Lagrangian relaxation to address long-term water contract constraints. We derive a real-time, non-anticipatory dispatch policy based on water contract pricing. Our framework is evaluated with a case study using real-world hydrology and power system data from Lake Mead and Lake Powell, on the Colorado River, demonstrating competitive performance against commercial solvers for both linearized and nonlinear reser- voir models. We conduct a sensitivity analysis on transmission capacity, electricity price and uncertainty scenarios, showing that the operational performance is significantly impacted by the transmission capacity and electricity prices while remaining relatively robust under uncertainty scenarios. Index Terms Hydropower, floating photovoltaics, long-term dispatch, water contract, Lagrangian relaxation I. I NTRODUCTION Reservoir-based hydropower is an economical and clean form of electricity. It is a flexible form of a generation capable of rapidly deploying energy from stored water while incurring no additional fuel costs and producing negligible emissions 1 . Recent deployments of floating solar photo- voltaic (FPV) systems in hydropower reservoirs enhance the utilization of local power infrastructure, improve generation efficiency, and support a reliable and clean energy supply 2 , 3 . This synergy enables innovative water release policies that enhance resilience and effectively integrate water management, solar generation, and grid requirements 4 . Operating hydropower with FPV must balance hourly power generation with water supply and flood control from the reservoir, requiring adherence to monthly water release targets and resulting in a multi-time-period optimization problem over a one-month horizon. However, solving this problem is challenging due to model nonlinearity 5 , long-term inter- temporal water release constraints 6 , etc. Regarding hy- dropower modeling, existing studies typically employ linear models 7 , piecewise linear models 8 , or machine learning models 9 . However, for large-scale multiple hydropower systems, these models become inefficient due to infeasibility or computational efficiency issues. On the other hand, existing studies primarily focus on short-term operations of coupled This work was partly supported by the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship under Grant No. DGE-2036197 and partly by the Department of Energy under Grant No. DE-EE0011385.hydropower and FPV within a 24-hour horizon, addressing un- certainties using risk-averse methods with pre-known knowl- edge of uncertainties 10 , 11 or rolling-horizon approaches with updated short-term forecasts 12 , 13 . However, these methods become intractable for long-term operations, as long- term forecasts are often non-anticipated or unreliable 14 , and decomposition methods struggle to manage long-term inter- temporal constraints. Moreover, the existing heuristic policies for long-term operations 15 may lead to suboptimal solutions and reliability issues. The updated long-term reference, coor- dinated with online convex optimization, is proposed for long- term operations of hydrogen in 16 , but it does not account for long-term constraints. Hence, it is significant to develop a more sophisticated hydropower model and long-term decision- making policy for the coupled hydropower and FPV . Motivated by this background, this paper proposes a Lagrangian-informed long-term dispatch framework with non- linear and nonconvex hydropower model for coupled hy- dropower and FPV systems. Specially, our contributions of this paper are as follows: Methodology: We develop a sequential non-anticipatory decision-making method for multi-time-period dispatch of coupled hydropower and FPV . The proposed method leverages partial Lagrangian relaxation to decompose the original problem into single-horizon dispatch and employs a bisection algorithm to determine the optimal shadow price of the long-term water release constraint. This enables efficient and reliable real-time energy man- agement of coupled systems over a monthly horizon. Modeling: We incorporate a nonlinear and nonconvex hydraulic head function, fitted from real-world data, into the long-term dispatch framework. We demonstrate that this incorporation is both feasible and computationally efficient with the proposed decomposition method. Numerical Analysis: We validate the proposed frame- work through a real-world case study on the Hoover and Glen Canyon Dams, modeled in aggregate with a hypothetical FPV installation 17 . We show that the proposed method achieves near-optimal performance with perfect foresight. We then conduct a sensitivity analy- sis on transmission capacities and uncertainty scenarios which provides valuable insights on applications and further extension. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Sec- tion II presents the problem formulation. Section III introducedarXiv:2503.01690v1 eess.SY 3 Mar 2025 the partial Lagrangian relaxation method. Section IV describes the numerical studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Finally, we conclude this paper in Section V. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATION We consider a coupled generation system combining hy- dropower and FPV . The coupled generation system operates under the same operator and transmission line. Hydropower manages reservoir water release for energy generation and other purposes, while FPV controls solar power based on available solar radiation. While the formulation proposed here is deterministic, we will show in Section IV that it serves as a baseline for developing a non-anticipatory dispatch policy. A. Formulation We formulate a multi-period optimization problem in (1) to maximize total generation revenue over the time period set T 1,2,. . .,T based on price of electricity λt( MWh). All units are normalized by the time step duration which is one hour in our case study. max ht,st,ut,VtX t Tλt(ht st) (1a) s.t.X t Tut U:θ (1b) Vt Vt 1 It ut,t T (1c) 0 ht ηgρϕ (Vt 1)ut 3.6e9,t T (1d) u ut u,t T (1e) R ut ut 1 R,t T (1f) 0 st αtS,t T (1g) 0 st ht P,t T (1h) where decision variables include st(MWh) denotes the dis- patched energy from FPV at time period t;ht(MWh) denotes the dispatched energy from hydropower at time period t;ut (m3) denotes the hourly water release at time period t;Vt(m3) denotes the reservoir volume at time period t. (1b) models the monthly water contract U(m3) and
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes social network theory and community detection algorithms in complex systems research.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents advances in robotics and automation for manufacturing and industrial applications using artificial intelligence.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging techniques for understanding neural mechanisms.
__label__nonenergy	The study examines the effects of social media on adolescent behavior and mental health outcomes in digital communication environments.
__label__energy	Investment-based optimisation of energy storage design parameters in a grid-connected hybrid renewable energy system Sleiman Farah and Gorm Bruun Andresen Department of Mechanical and Production Engineering, Aarhus University, Denmark (Dated: September 6, 2023) Grid-connected hybrid renewable power systems with energy storage can reduce the intermittency of renewable power supply. However, emerging energy storage technologies need improvement to compete with lithium-ion batteries and reduce the cost of energy. Identifying and optimizing the most valuable improvement path of these technologies is challenging due to the non-linearity of the energy system model when considering parameters as independent variables. To overcome this, a novel investment-based optimisation method is proposed. The method involves linear optimiza- tion of the hybrid renewable energy system and subsequent investment optimization, accounting for diminishing improvements per investment. The results from applying the investment-based op- timisation to thermal energy, pumped thermal energy, molten salt, and adiabatic compressed air energy storage technologies, show that improving the discharge efficiency is the most valuable for all technologies. The second most important parameters are the costs of discharge capacity and energy storage capacity, and the least important parameters are the charge capacity cost and charge efficiency . The study provides detailed improvement pathways for each technology under various operational conditions, assisting developers in resource allocation. Overall, the investment-based optimization method and findings contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of emerging energy storage technologies and reducing reliance on batteries in renewable energy systems. I. INTRODUCTION Decarbonising the electricity grid by transitioning away from fossil fuels towards renewable energy sources is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change 1 . However, the integration of intermit- tent renewable power sources, such as solar and wind, increases the difficulty of managing the electricity grid and maintaining the balance of electricity supply and de- mand 2 . To alleviate the adverse effects of renewable energy integration into the grid, some recent tenders of grid- connected renewable energy systems now mandate that annual net energy supplied to the grid should exceed a minimum threshold specified by the grid-connection ca- pacity factor. Typically, the requirement exceeds the ca- pacity factor of local renewable resources 3 . For in- stance, a renewable energy system with 100 MW grid- connection capacity and 50 capacity factor should sup- ply at least 438 GWh net renewable electricity to the grid annually. To achieve the required energy supply for rela- tively low capacity factors, renewable energy systems are likely to consist of either, solar, wind, or a combination of both electricity sources depending on the availability of natural sources. However, for high capacity factors of the grid-connection, the capacities of renewable energy sources increase significantly, adversely affecting the eco- nomic viability of the system. Therefore, for high grid-connection capacity factors, i.e., high renewable energy penetration into the grid, en- ergy storage becomes important to compensate for the sleiman.farah mpe.au.dkintermittency of renewable electricity sources and for re- ducing the system capacities. Energy storage systems can store excess energy generated by renewable sources during periods of high generation, and supply the previ- ously stored energy into the grid when the renewable elec- tricity generation is low. This ability of energy storage systems reduces the undesirable intermittency effect and enables more efficient use of renewable energy sources. Several emerging energy storage technologies can ful- fill the role of reducing the intermittency of renewable energy sources. However, emerging technologies are typ- ically competing with lithium-ion batteries that exhibit excellent performance characteristics to fulfill the same role 4 6 . Lithium-ion batteries may dominate the en- ergy storage market especially that they are suitable for multiple applications that can increase their market pen- etration 4 . Therefore, from the perspective of energy storage de- velopers, identifying and improving important character- istics of emerging technologies is critical to be able to be- come competitive with lithium-ion batteries. Given lim- ited resources, however, should the development efforts be on improving technical characteristics or on reducing capacity costs for specific energy storage technologies? Energy storage developers are most likely interested in identifying the optimal distribution of resources or in- vestments to improve the characteristics of specific en- ergy storage technologies. The need for energy storage for renewable energy inte- gration into the electricity grid is highlighted in several studies 7 10 . The role of energy storage in the feasibility of renewable energy integration into the European elec- tricity network was analysed for different scenarios 7 . The average storage fraction was calculated as a function of variable renewable energy penetration using a polyno-arXiv:2309.02406v1 eess.SY 5 Sep 2023 2 mial regression model. The overall conclusion was that increasing the use of energy storage by energy storage market development and regulations is essential for suc- cessful renewable energy integration 7 . The role of energy storage in the European energy net- work was also modelled considering coupling of electric- ity, transport and heating sectors for various CO 2re- duction constraints 8 . The network was modelled in PyPSA-Eur-Sec-30 9 , considering hourly resolution and 30 European countries. The model calculated the opti- mal capacities and optimal power flows within the energy network. The results showed that sector coupling reduces the need for large energy storage capacities which become necessary at high CO 2reductions 8 . The aforementioned studies reveal the importance of energy storage systems especially with high penetration of renewable energy. However, these studies do not in- vestigate the effect of energy storage parameters at the technology level, i.e., they do not analyse the effect of design parameters of energy storage technologies. Such analysis was conducted considering two energy systems in the United States of America 10 . Discrete combi- nations of efficiency and cost values for existing and po- tential future long-duration energy storage technologies were utilised in an electricity system capacity expansion model. The analysed parameter combinations achieved different system values defined as reductions in the total electricity system. These reductions were utilised in a regression model to identify the order of significance of the storage parameters. The energy capacity cost
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	XXX -X-XXXX -XXXX -X XX XX.00 20XX IEEE Impulse Excitation Diagram as a tool to achieve high energy orbits Damian Gąska Faculty of Transport and Aviation Engineering Silesian University of Technology Katowice, Poland damian.gaska polsl.pl Piotr Wolszczak Faculty of Mechanical Engineering Lublin University of Technology Lublin, Poland p.wolszczak pollub.plJerzy Margielewicz Faculty o f Transport and Aviation Engineering Silesian University of Technology Katowice, Poland jerzy.margielewicz polsl.pl Sławomir Bucki Faculty of Transport and Aviation Engineering Silesian University of Technology Katowice, Poland slawomir.bucki polsl.pl Grzegorz Litak Faculty of Mechanical Engineering Lublin University of Technology Lublin, Poland g.litak pollub.pl Abstract The paper presents the application of a new impulse excitation diagram (IED) to help realize high -energy orbits in nonlinear energy harvesting systems. In the case of non-linearity, we can deal with the occurrence of coexisting solutions and the proposed diagram allows for the use of the impulse excitation method in order to change the solution. For this purpose, the author s IED diagram was presented to determine the characteristics, duration and moment of initiation of the external disturbing impulse in order to jump to an other orbit. An application example is the quasizero energy harvester and two different impulse characteristics. Keywords energy harvesting, nonlinear dynamics, vibrations, energy efficiency, high energy orbits I. INTRODUCTION The continuous development of science often leads to solutions that constitute a breakthrough in technology. One of such breakthroughs, practically at the beginning of this century, may be energy harvesting 1 . Research on t he recovery of ambient energy in the form of, for example, mechanical vibrations, is currently conducted in many research centers around the world 2,3 . This issue is extended to other sources, mainly such as: air flow (as opposed to energy obtained from wind turbines), temperature changes, 4,5 etc. This arouses increasing interest also among designers, especially in the field of application in IoT devices 6 . The goal, of course, is to eliminate the external power source, which simplifies the operation of the device, eliminates the need to replace the battery or connect the device to the network. The amounts of e nergy harvested in this way is small, but sufficient to power sensors and transmit information 7 . Devices for harvesting kinetic energy from mechanical vibrations and converting it into electrical energy with use of electrostatic 8 , electro magnetic 9,10 or piezoelectric 11,12 methods. The use of piezoelectric transducers has gained quite a lot of popularity due to high energy efficiency. The frequency of vibrations in the human environment is usually quite low and is below 200 Hz, while in the case of infrastructure elements such as bridges, it often does not exceed 5 Hz 13 . The occurring amplitudes of vibrations depend on the object and may vary in a wide range. As a result, various designs of energy harvesting systems are created, which were initially adapted to a specific object. An energy harvester using the piezoelectric phenomenon is most often made of a housing mounted on a vibrating object and a beam excited to vibrations with a piezoelectric attached to it. The deformation of the beam causes the formation of an electric charge in the electric circuit of the piezoelectric 14 . Initially, such systems were designed to be linear, focused on t he resonant frequency of the source of the excitation, but the work 15 resulted in a breakthroug h by introducing non - linearity. Since then, non -linear broadband energy harvesters have been developed, the operating spectrum of which is much wider than that of devices with linear characteristics 16 . The nonlinearities are most often introduced by a system of magnets resulting in the formation of bistable 16 energy harvesters, tristable 17 and generally multistable 18 . In addit ion, nonlinearities are introduced by usage of variable beam structures, materials, elastic and dissipative elements 19 21 . Nonlinear energy harvesters, despite their ind isputable advantages ( broadband work with various input parameters), have a characteristic feature for all nonlinear systems coexisting solutions may occur in them 22 . For the same excitation conditions, there may be many orbits , some of which will be more energy efficient and others less. Under zero initial conditions, nonlinear energy harvesters usually vibrate at the low -energy orbit, which leads to small energy harvesting efficiency 18 . Of course, the goal is for the energy harvester to work with the greatest possible energy efficiency, therefore research is being carried out on the possibility of controlling the orbit. Currently, two types of orbit change method are applicable. These are electrical and mechanical methods based on the use of a n external impact to achieve a high -energy orbit . Examples of electrical methods are voltage impulse perturbation presented in the paper 23 , and load perturbation 24 based on electromagnetic kick. For the second method, an impact -induced spring -based structure was prese nted by Zhou et al . 25 to achieve high -energy orbits to overcome local potential barriers. Some solutions are based on buckling level modification 26,27 , while at work Yan et al. a synchronized switch stiffness control technique was proposed 28 . Similar studies developing the mechanical method were carried out in the works 29,30 . The key question is how much energy will be obtained and how much will be needed for the jump between orbits because the impulse should be powered by energy harvested by the system . The paper presents the IED tool that allows to sol ve some of the problems related to achieving high energy orbits. II. APPLICATION OF IED FOR EXAMPLE ENERGY HARVESTER A. Quasi -Zero Energy Harvester To present the use of IED in practice, at the beginning we present the energy harvesting system designed by us and analyzed for some time Quasi -Zero Energy Harvester (QZEH ) 20,21 in which the potential function was mapped with the quasi -zero s tiffness characteristic . The design structure of analyzed device is shown in Fig. 1 . In comparison to other design
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Quantum materials for energy-eﬃcient neuromorphic computing: Opportunities and challenges Axel Hoﬀmann,1Shriram Ramanathan,2Julie Grollier,3Andrew D. Kent,4Marcelo Rozenberg,5 Ivan K. Schuller,6, 7Oleg Shpyrko,6Robert Dynes,6Yeshaiahu Fainman,8Alex Frano,6Eric E. Fullerton,9, 8 Giulia Galli,10, 11Vitaliy Lomakin,9, 8Shyue Ping Ong,12Amanda K. Petford-Long,11, 13Jonathan A. Schuller,14 Mark D. Stiles,15Yayoi Takamura,16and Yimei Zhu17 1)Materials Research Laboratory and Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA 2)School of Materials Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA 3)Unité Mixte de Physique CNRS Thales, Université Paris-Saclay, 91767 Palaiseau, France 4)Center for Quantum Phenomena, Department of Physics, New York University, New York 10003, USA 5)Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS Laboratoire de Physique des Solides, Orsay 91405, France 6)Department of Physics, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 7)Center for Advanced Nanoscience, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 8)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 9)Center for Memory and Recording Research, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 10)Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering and Department of Chemistry, The University of Chicago, Chicago Illinois 60637, USA 11)Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, Illinois 60439, USA 12)Department of NanoEngineering, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA 13)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA 14)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA 15)Physical Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899-6202, USA 16)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California, Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA 17)Department of Consdensed Matter Physics and Materials Science, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA (Dated: 6 April 2022) Neuromorphic computing approaches become increasingly important as we address future needs for efﬁciently pro- cessing massive amounts of data. The unique attributes of quantum materials can help address these needs by enabling new energy-efﬁcient device concepts that implement neuromorphic ideas at the hardware level. In particular, strong correlations give rise to highly non-linear responses, such as conductive phase transitions that can be harnessed for short and long-term plasticity. Similarly, magnetization dynamics are strongly non-linear and can be utilized for data classiﬁcation. This paper discusses select examples of these approaches, and provides a perspective for the current op- portunities and challenges for assembling quantum-material-based devices for neuromorphic functionalities into larger emergent complex network systems. I. INTRODUCTION Brain-inspired computing is promising for the development of highly efﬁcient complex computation with minimal energy consumption. Today, software implementations of neural net- works have become ubiquitous, including facial recognition software, language translation, and search engines. Unfortu- nately the energy being used on these tasks is growing unsus- tainably. Fortunately, the brain also provides inspiration for approaches to minimize this energy. Brain-inspired comput- ing can not only address the efﬁciency of computing in datacenters, it can also address the need to provide efﬁcient com- putation solutions locally at potential sensors and close to the end-user in order to avoid the inefﬁciencies of communicating data over long-distances. Most research on neural networks and on neuromorphic computing uses CMOS technology.1However, as an increas- ing number of applications emerge, more complicated net- works require more resources. One approach to limit the en- ergy used is to use specialized hardware like graphical pro- cessing units (GPUs) or tensor processing units (TPUs) that are optimized for carrying out the many vector-matrix multi-arXiv:2204.01832v1 cs.ET 4 Apr 2022 2 plications that are used in neural networks. So far, this is the most commercially viable approach. In a more forward-looking approach to capturing some of the brain s efﬁciency for cognitive computing, many re- searchers are trying to more closely mimic the brain by build- ing spiking networks. Large corporations2 4have developed specialized chips that are in some sense, still conventional digital computers, since they are implemented with standard CMOS technology but they are optimized for running arti- ﬁcial neural networks algorithms. These chips are designed around digital CMOS implementations of synapses and neu- rons, where a large number of relatively small computing units are in close physical proximity to the working memory that is distributed throughout the system. These remarkable chips implement millions of neurons and hundreds of millions of synapses. Other approaches5are hybrid in the sense that the neurons are physically implemented by analog electronics.6For in- stance, the membrane potential of each neuron is implemented by the charge stored in a capacitor. The neurons emit a spike when the voltage of the capacitor reaches a preset threshold potential. However, the system is hybrid because the spike is not represented by the emission of an analog action poten- tial, but by a spike event, which is communicated to a down- stream neurons through a network that digitally implements the synaptic connections. The power consumption of spiking systems might be further optimized by using transistors work- ing in the subthreshold regime.7However, operating in this regime leads to more variability in the electronic response. Miniaturization of CMOS electronics is feasible down to the nanometer scale. However, all neuromorphic computing systems that represent a neuron in a compact manner, require a capacitor, whose miniaturization remains a serious challenge. The miniaturization of the capacitors is crucially limited by the dielectric constant of CMOS compatible materials. It may be possible to overcome this problem with a radically differ- ent approach that rests on different physical principles for the implementation of artiﬁcial spiking neurons. One way to reduce energy consumption in artiﬁcial neu- rons and other approaches to brain-inspired computing is to exploit the pronounced non-linear properties of quantum ma- terials. The principal idea behind this energy efﬁciency is that in quantum materials a small electrical stimulus may produce a large response that can be electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic, etc. through a material change of state. For ex- ample, several oxides exhibit a metal-insulator transition in which a small voltage or current can produce a large (several orders of magnitude) change in resistivity.8Furthermore, dur- ing the resistive switching, Joule heating provides an intrinsic physical mechanism
__label__energy	arXiv:2003.07062v2 eess.SY 18 Mar 20201 Variable Speed Hydropower Plant with Virtual Inertia Control for Provision of Fast Frequency Reserves Tor Inge Reigstad, Kjetil Uhlen Abstract In this paper, ﬁve virtual inertia control structures are implemented and tested on a variable speed hydropower (VSHP) plant. The results show that all ﬁve can deliver fast power reserves to maintain grid stability after disturbanc es after a disturbance. The VSHP is well suited for the purposed since its output power can be changed almost instantaneously by utili zing the rotational energy of the turbine and generator. This wil l cause the turbine rotational speed to deviate from its optimal val ue temporarily. Then the governor control will regain the turb ine rotational speed by controlling the guide vane opening and thereby the turbine ﬂow and mechanical power. With that, the VSHP output power can be changed permanently to contribute with primarily frequency reserves. Dynamic and eigenvalue analyses are performed to compare ﬁve different versions of the basic VSG and VSM control structures; VSG, power-frequency PID-controller with per ma- nent droop (VSG-PID), VSM, VSM with power-frequency PD- controller (VSM-PD), and VSM with power-frequency PID- controller and permanent droop (VSM-PID). They are evaluat ed by two main criteria; their ability to deliver instantaneou s power (inertia) to reduce the rate of change of frequency (ROCOF) a nd their contribution to frequency containment control (stea dy-state frequency droop response). Index Terms Virtual inertia, synthetic inertia, virtual syn- chronous generator, virtual synchronous machine, variabl e speed hydropower, hydropower, grid integration study. I. I NTRODUCTION THE increasing share of non-controllable renewable en- ergy enforces the introduction of new ﬂexible producers and consumers to ensure the balance of the grid. In the Nordic grid, large hydro and thermal power plants have up til now supplied inertia and frequency control. The introduction o f wind, solar and HVDC connection to Europa creates new production scenarios where the inertia in the grid is very lo w. This will compromise the frequency stability as the inverte r- based generation does not provide any response to frequency deviations unless virtual inertia control is implemented. The goal of the inertia control is to control the converters to in - crease the inertia in the grid. Different typologies are rev iewed in 1 and they are divided into three categories. The simple st type is the frequency-response based models where the power is controlled proportionally to the frequency deviation an d or the derivative of the frequency 2 . Other models emulate a synchronous machine by a machine model and are therefore referred to synchronous generator based models. They might T.I. Reigstad and K. Uhlen are with Department for Electric P ower Engi- neering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (N TNU), NO-7491 Trondheim, Norway (email: tor.inge.reigstad ntnu.no, kj etil.uhlen ntnu.no)contain models of inertia, damping and voltage 3 . The swin g- equation models are similar to the synchronous generator based models, however, they are based on a simpler power- frequency swing equation 4 . In this paper, Variable Speed Hydropower (VSHP) is inves- tigated to provide Fast Frequency Reserves (FFR) and Virtua l Inertia (VI) to the grid. These ancillary services can incre ase the frequency stability by responding to frequency deviati ons within1sand thereby contribute to balancing the grid, main- taining the power system security and thereby improving the grid stability. As the system inertia is reduced as the share of renewable energy increases, the utilization of VI may be essential for the green shift. The other main advantages of variable speed hydropower are increase efﬁciency at low production and the possibilit y to control the power in pumping modes while keeping the efﬁciency at an acceptable level 5 . Besides, the converte r technology of the VSHP can improve the speed of the voltage control and potentially increase the reactive power capabi l- ity. The drawbacks are the power losses of the converters, increased costs and the reduced reliability if bypassing th e converters is impossible. The limited short circuit curren t of the converters may also cause challenges for the generator a nd grid protection. VSHP plants are particularly suited for VI control since the rotational energy of the turbine and generator can be utiliz ed by allowing the rotational speed to deviate from its best operating point. Then the guide vane opening, water ﬂow and thereby the mechanical power can be controlled to regain the rotational speed of the turbine. Despite other sources of vi rtual inertia have not the same properties, implementation of VI i n VSHP is not investigated in the literature. Photovoltaic sy stems (PV) have very limited energy storage while the rotational speed of wind turbines 6 , 7 must be regained by reducing the power output, which will cause additional frequency dro p. Wind turbines are therefore best ﬁtted for frequency-power response-based control with temporary grid support 8 . In addition, virtual inertia from batteries 9 , capacitors 10 and HVDC 11 are investigated in literature. The power reserves are divided into four levels in 7 , 12 , each of them necessary for maintaining the balance between power generation and power consumption and thereby ensur- ing that the frequency is kept within the limits given by the g rid codes. The fastest power reserves are the instantaneous pow er reserves, also called inertia. They generated by the physic al stabilizing effect of all the grid-connected synchronous m a- 2 chines due to the energy in the rotating masses in turbines an d generators and are most important the ﬁrst few second after a disturbance. The frequency containment reserves (FRC) ar e automatically and fully activated within 30sin the Nordic grid. The FRC is locally activated and implemented in the governor control as frequency droop control. There are two levels of FCR in the Nordic grid, FCR-N is activated at frequency deviations 0.1Hzwhile FCR-D is activated at 49.9Hzand fully activated at 49.5Hz. The two slowest levels of power reserves, Secondary and tertiary reserves, are not
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	1 Human Reliability Analysis for Oil and Gas Operations: Analysis of Existing Methods Marilia A. Ramos University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Engin eering VI, 404 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles -CA, 90095 Marilia.ramos ucla.edu Camille Major Chevron Technology, Projects and Servic es 1400 Smith Street, Houston TX, 77002 CMajor chevron.com Nsimah Ekanem Chevron Technology, Projects and Services 1400 Smith Street, Houston TX, 77002 Nsimah.Ekanem chevron.com Cesar Malpica Chevron Technology, Projects and Services 1400 Smith Street, Houston TX, 77002 Cesar.Malpica chevron.com Ali Mosleh University of California Los Angeles (UCLA Enginnering VI, 404 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles -CA, 90095 mosleh ucla.edu Keywords: Human Error, Oil and Gas, Human Reliability Analysis PRE PRINT Published on: 2020 Spring Meeting and 1 6th Global Congress on Process Safety Houston, TX March 30 April 1, 2020 Abstr act In the petroleum industry, Quantitative Risk Analysis (QRA) has been one of the main tools for risk management. To date, QRA has mostly focused on technical barriers, despite many accidents having human failure as a primary cause or a contributing fac tor. Human Reliability Analysis (HRA) allows for the assessment of the human contribution to risk to be assessed both qualitatively and quantitatively. M ost credible and highly advanced HRA methods have largely been developed and applied in support of nucl ear power plants control room operations and in context of probabilistic risk analysis. Moreover, many of the HRA methods have issues that 2 have led to inconsistencies, insufficient traceability and reproducibility in both the qualitative and quantitative p hases. Given the need to assess human error in the context of the oil industry, it is necessary to evaluate available HRA methodologies and asses s its applicability to petroleum operations. Furthermore, it is fundamental to assess these methods against goo d practices of HRA and the requirements for advanced HRA methods. The present paper accomplishes this by analyzing seven HRA methods. The evaluation of the methods was performed in three stages. The first stage consisted of an evaluation of the degree of a daptability of the method for the Oil and Gas industry. In the second stage the methods were evaluated against desirable items in an HRA method. The higher -ranked method s were evaluated, in the third stage, against requirements for advanced HRA methods. In addition to the methods evaluation, this paper present s an overview of state-of-the-art discussions on HRA, led by the Nuclear industry community. It remark s that these discussions must be seriously considered in defining a technical roadmap to a credible HRA method for the Oil and Gas industry. 1 Introduction Petroleum installations pose safety concerns that are inherent to their characteristics after all, operations and day -to-day work happen among flammable and toxic fluids. Although the oil and gas industry has made advances to improve safety, accidents of all ranges still occur. Since 1992, when the Process Safety Management standard (PSM) was promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), no other industry sector has had as many fatal or catastrophic incidents related to the release of highly hazardous chemicals (HHC) as has been the case with the petroleum refining industry 1 . Statistics show that the majority of accidents (over 80 ) in the chemical and petrochemical industries are related to human failure 2 . The American Petroleum Institute state s that in the recent decades, the 100 largest accidents at chemical and hydrocarbon processing facilities have severely injured or killed hundreds of people, contaminated the environment, a nd caused several property damage. Moreover, human error was a significant factor in almost all these accidents. In systems where a high degree of hardware redundancy minimizes the consequences of single component failures, human errors may comprise over 90 percent of the system failure probability 3 . In the petroleum industry, Quantitative Risk Analysis (QRA) has been one of the main tools for risk management. QRAs differ on the extent to which they incorporate human and organizational factors . To date, QRA has mostly focused on technical barriers 4 6 . It is important to note that the need for analyzing human error in the process industry is recognized by the American Petroleum Institute, in the guide A Manager s Guide to Reducing Human Errors (API 770) 3 . The guide states : any serious attempt to improve process safety must address the fact that human errors in the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and management of facilities are the root causes of almost all quality deficiencies, production losses, and accidents . Human Reliability Analysis (HRA) allows for identifying, modeling and quantifying human errors, their causes , and their consequences. The results of an HRA can be used for developing risk reduction measures and make risk-informed decisions. HRA has deep roots in the Nuclear industr y, and m any HRA methods that exist nowadays were developed for and or primarily applied to Nuclear Power Plants (NPPs) operations. Oil and Gas operations and NPPs have, however, remark able differences concerning operation, control room layouts, time window for accident avoidance and mitigation, training and safety culture 7 . Taylor et al. 5 provide an 3 overview of these differences. In the lack of a method specific for oil and gas operations, the industry ha s been generally applying generic HRA methods, which may not correctly represent the peculiarities of their operations . Recent initiatives aim at developing an HRA method tailored for the Oil and Gas industry , such as the Petro -HRA project 8 and Phoenix for Petroleum Refining Operations (Phoenix -PRO) 7 . Both methods consist of adaptations of existing HRA methods. Petro -HRA method modified the SPAR -H method 9 for representing oil and gas operations, with a focus on upstream operations . Phoenix -PRO modified Phoenix HRA method 10 for oil refineries and petrochemical plants operations. The features of an HRA method for the Oil and Gas industry should not stop at its suitability for representing and analyzing its operations . It is equally important that the model is robust qualitatively
__label__nonenergy	The research examines pharmaceutical drug development and clinical trial methodologies for therapeutic interventions.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__energy	1 Screening Curve Method for Economic Analysis of Household Solar Energy Self-Consumption Hikaru Hoshino, Member , Yosuke Irie, Eiko Furutani, Member Abstract The profitability of solar energy self-consumption in households, the so-called photovoltaic (PV) self-consumption, is expected to boost the deployment of PV and battery storage systems. This paper develops a novel method for economic analysis of PV self-consumption using battery storage based on an extension of the Screening Curve Method (SCM). The SCM enables quick and intuitive estimation of the least-cost generation mix for a target load curve and has been used for generation planning for bulk power systems. In this paper, we generalize the framework of existing SCM to take into account the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources and apply it to the problem of optimal sizing of PV and battery storage systems for a household. Numerical studies are provided to verify the estimation accuracy of the proposed SCM and to illustrate its effectiveness in a sensitivity analysis, owing to its ability to show intuitive plots of cost curves for researchers or policy-makers to understand the reasons behind the optimization results. Index Terms Solar PV , battery storage, screening curve method, feed-in tariffs. I. I NTRODUCTION THE installation capacity of solar photovoltaics (PV) in the world has increased over the past decades owing to the use of support policies such as feed-in tariffs 1 , 2 . Recently, the price of PV has declined dramatically, and the grid parity has been reached in several countries 3 , which means that PV can produce electricity at a price below the price of electricity purchased from the grid. In these regions or countries, not only selling electricity to the grid but also self-consumption of PV-produced electricity can bring economic benefit to the consumer. Because of this, the deployment of PV based on household solar energy self- consumption, which is called as PV self-consumption 4 , has attracted great interest. As one of the policies based on the concept of PV self-consumption, many countries introduced net-metering or net-billing mechanisms 5 , where the surplus electricity fed into the grid is rewarded with credits that can be applied to offset consumption. However, there have been intense debates on net-metering policies regarding recovery of network costs and equity of cost allocation 6 , 7 , and several setbacks and cancellations in the application of these policies have occurred 3 . Furthermore, various new self-consumption schemes, such as collective or distributed self-consumption 8 , 9 , are proposed or implemented in several countries, and This work was supported in part by JST, ACT-X Grant Number JPM- JAX210M, Japan. The authors are with the Department of Electrical Materials and Engi- neering, University of Hyogo, 2167 Shosha, Himeji, Hyogo, 671-2280, Japan (email: hoshino eng.u-hyogo.ac.jp).thus appropriate regulatory frameworks based on the concept of self-consumption remain to be discussed. To contribute to such discussions, economic analysis for evaluating the profitability of PV self-consumption has been extensively studied. Existing methods can be categorized into optimization and simulation methods, depending on whether the capacities of PV and battery storage are optimization variables or simulated as exogenous parameters 10 . Since simulation-based methods might underestimate the economic value of the investment 11 , it is important to correctly determine the sizes of the PV and battery storage according to the customers load profiles, and thus optimization methods are often used 12 , 13 , 14 . While these methods can incorporate constraints to describe various situations, it takes hours or days to obtain optimization results. Therefore, only a limited number of scenarios (input data and parameters) are likely to be analyzed to provide inadequate information to infer a trend for inputs. Besides, these methods gives the optimization results like a black box , and limited intuition can be gained from the obtained results. Since there is a high uncertainty in the estimates of parameters such as prices and costs, the above two issues of computational time and the interpretability of the results make it difficult for policy-makers and regulators to learn from these optimization studies. The Screening Curve Method (SCM) is an intuitive and quick method for estimating the least-cost generation mix, and it is a good tool to provide answers to the above issues. SCM was first proposed in the 1960s 15 , 16 . It compares the summations of annualized upfront investment costs (fixed costs) and production costs (variable costs) of multiple technologies to determine the optimal mix when no technical constraints are considered. In recent years, much effort has been made to develop enhanced versions of SCM to estimate the optimal mix considering technical details. The start-up cost, thermal cycling, and other miscellaneous short- term operations of thermal generation are modeled in 17 , 18 . Furthermore, ancillary services are considered in 19 , hydro scheduling is modeled in 20 , existing capacities are considered in 21 , 22 , and planned outages are considered in 23 . All of these SCMs have been developed for estimating the optimal capacity mix in a bulk power system. The purpose of this paper is to develop an SCM for eco- nomic analysis of photovoltaic self-consumption to estimate optimal sizes of PV and battery storage systems at the demand side. It has been known that the framework of SCM can be applied to the optimal sizing of various sources to satisfy load demands 24 , 25 . However, there has been no existingarXiv:2308.00244v2 eess.SY 12 Jan 2024 2 SCM that can take into account the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources. In this paper, to consider the fact that the amount of electricity generated by PV depends on the solar irradiation at each time, we newly adopt a time-varying scheme to decompose the load curve, whereas time-invariant load slices have been used in existing SCMs to decompose the original optimization problem into sub-problems. It is shown that the proposed SCM can be used to estimate the optimal solution of a Linear Programming (LP) problem. While an estimation algorithm has been
__label__energy	Coordination of resources at the edge of the electricity grid:systematic review and taxonomyF.Charbonniera, ,T.MorstynbandM.McCullochaaDepartment of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, UKbSchool of Engineering, University of Edinburgh, UKARTICLE INFOKeywords:coordinationrenewable energypeer-to-peer energy tradingtransactive energysmart gridsdistributed energy resourcesABSTRACTThis paper proposes a novel taxonomy of coordination strategies for distributed energy resourcesat the edge of the electricity grid, based on a systematic analysis of key literature trends. Thecoordination of distributed energy resources such as decentralised generation and ﬂexibilitysources is critical for decarbonising electricity and achieving climate goals. The literature on thetopic is growing exponentially; however, there is ambiguity in the terminology used to date. Weseek to resolve this lack of clarity by synthesising the categories of coordination strategies in anovel exhaustive, mutually exclusive taxonomy based on agency, information and game type. Therelevance of these concepts in the literature is illustrated through a systematic literature reviewof 84,741 publications using a structured topic search query. Then 93 selected coordinationstrategies are analysed in more detail and mapped onto this framework. Clarity on structuralassumptions is key for selecting appropriate coordination strategies for di ering contexts withinenergy systems. We argue that a plurality of complementary strategies is needed to coordinateenergy systems di erent components and achieve deep decarbonisation.List of AbbreviationsADMM Alternating direction of multipliersICT Information and control technologyDLT Distributed ledge technologyL1 First layer of the proposed taxonomyDER Distributed energy resourceL2 Second layer of the proposed taxonomyDLMP Distribution locational marginal pricingL3 Third layer of the proposed taxonomyDR Demand responseML Machine learningDSO Distribution system operatorPV photovoltaicEMS Energy management systemP2P peer-to-peerEV Electric vehicleRL Reinforcement learningGDPR General data protection regulationTOU Time of useHVAC Heating, ventilation, and air conditioningUK United KingdomTable 1: Nomenclature1. IntroductionThis paper investigates how strategies for the coordination of grid-edge energy resources distributed energyresources (DERs) connected at the distribution network level 1 can be synthesised in a hierarchical classiﬁcationaccording to their structural similarities and di erences, referred to as a taxonomy 2 .Coordination of grid-edge resources could make a major contribution to power system decarbonisation, whichis critical for keeping anthropogenic warming below 1.5 C above pre-industrial levels. Exceeding this limit wouldseverely increase the risks of extreme climate events and associated impacts on health, livelihood, security andeconomic growth. Widespread electriﬁcation of primary energy provision and decarbonisation of the power sector are Corresponding author flora.charbonnier eng.ox.ac.uk(F. Charbonnier)ORCID(s):0000-0003-3174-0362(F. Charbonnier);0000-0003-2781-9588(T. Morstyn);0000-0001-5378-1128(M. McCulloch)F. Charbonnier et al.:PreprintPage 1 of 29 Coordination of resources at the edge of the electricity grid: systematic review and taxonomytherefore necessary, and renewable power supplies could be required to supply 70 to 85 of electricity globally by20501 3 . While numerous energy generation and enabling storage and ﬂexibility technologies exist and are emerging,a key challenge is their integration at an unprecedented scale. The coordination of energy ﬂexibility in all sectors isneeded for the integration of high levels of intermittent renewable energy, from the transmission to the distributionnetwork 3 .To achieve these coordination objectives, a robust decarbonised power system will rely on two major structuralfeatures: decentralisation and demand response (DR) 4 . As the ﬂexibility, control, and data ownership areincreasingly decentralised, DERs can provide such decentralised DR, as well as operational services such as frequencyregulation, spinning reserves provision, voltage management, system balancing and network congestion management 5,6 . Moreover, the coordination of ﬂexible DERs can yield numerous local and global co-beneﬁts: reduction ofenvironmental concerns, reduced energy transport and storage costs, improved grid stability, alignment of peak demandwith decarbonised energy provision in time and space, reduced costs of peaking plants and capacity reserves, deferralof transmission and distribution grid upgrades, energy independence and security, incentives for the contribution ofnumerous actors in investment, reduced bills for consumers, and enhanced social cohesion 7 10 . Extensive researchis therefore conducted to extend the realm of coordination to small, grid-edge resources in the distribution grid, and thescholarship on the coordination of resources at the edge of the electricity grid has been growing exponentially since1995 (Figure1). Particularly, novel research is seeking to tackle the challenges of computation and control at the scaleof millions of units 11 , privacy concerns and acceptability issues 7,8,12 , as well as increased uncertainty at thelocal level 13 .Although numerous reviews focus on speciﬁc areas within the ﬁeld of grid-edge energy resources coordination,they concentrate on limited aspects rather than systematically reviewing the landscape of coordination strategies, anduse conﬂicting terminology. Some reviews focus on one type of grid-edge resource only, for example on residentialthermal energy storage 14 or deferrable loads 15 . Others focus on speciﬁc segments of the electricity grid, such ason the residential context 16,17 , or on microgrids 18 21 . Previous reviews have analysed particular coordinationmethods such as market-based coordination 5,6,9,22 26 , optimisation 27 , particle swarm optimisation and geneticalgorithms 28 and reinforcement learning (RL) 7 . Others have investigated speciﬁc technological tools enablingcoordination, such as distributed ledger technologies (DLT) 29 and digital tools such as modelling, simulation andhierarchical control 30 . Tohidi et al. review grid-edge resources coordination indirectly, by investigating the possibleinteractions between local and central electricity markets 31 . Guerrero et al. investigate the technical issues associatedwith the implementation of behind-the-meter DERs coordination strategies in a low-voltage network 32 . Despiteall these individual thematic reviews, there is no systematic review and taxonomy of the ﬁeld of coordination ofresources at the edge of the electricity grid with applicability across energy technologies. The terminology used tocategorise DER coordination strategies within the literature have overlaps and inconsistencies, with terms such as peer-to-peer , multi-agent or transactive energy which may refer to coordination frameworks with fundamentallydi erent structural features. The resulting unproductive linguistic ambiguity impedes e ective communication andunderstanding in the ﬁeld, which can hinder both academic progress and collaboration with industry.This paper seeks to bridge this gap to bring greater clarity to the classiﬁcation and terminology in the ﬁeld of DERcoordination. The principal contributions of this paper are: The development of a novel comprehensive taxonomy for distributed resources coordination strategies, whichaims at clarifying the structural features of coordination strategies, as the terminology currently used to describethem is often ambiguous. The identiﬁcation of key research themes corresponding to the coordination categories through a systematicreview
__label__energy	1 Ground state of (Pb 0.94Sr0.06)(Zr 0.530Ti0.470)O3 in the morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) region: Evidence fo r monoclinic Cc space group Ravindra Singh Solanki,1 Akhilesh Kumar Singh,1 S. K. Mishra,2 Shane J. Kennedy,3 Takashi Suzuki,4 Yoshihiro Kuroiwa,5 Chikako Moriyoshi,5 and Dhananjai Pandey1 1School of Materials Science and Technol ogy, Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi-221005, India 2Research and Technology Development Centre, Sharda University, Greater Noida- 201306, India 3Australian Nuclear Science and Technol ogy Organization (ANS TO), Australia 4Department of Quantum Matter, ADS M, Hiroshima University, Japan 5Department of Physical Science, Graduate School of Science, Hiroshima University, Japan Abstract The antiferrodistortive (AFD) phase transi tion for a pseudotetragonal composition of Pb(Zr 0.530Ti0.470)O3 (PZT) doped with 6 Sr has been investigated using sound velocity (4 to 320K), high resolution synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction (100 to 800K) and high resolution as well as high flux neutron powder diffraction measurements (4K) to settle the existing controversies about the true ground state of PZ T in the morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) region. The multiplet char acter of the neutron diffraction profiles of (3 2 1 2 1 2) pc (pseudocubic or pc indices) and (3 2 3 2 1 2) pc superlattice peaks, appearing below the AFD transition temperat ure, rules out the rhombohedral R3c space group. The true ground state is confirmed to be monoclinic in the Cc space group in agreement with the predictions of the first pr inciples calculations a nd earlier findings for pure PZT in the MPB region. 6 Sr2 substitution and the use of high wavelength (λ 2.44Å) neutrons have played key role in settling the existing controversies about the true ground state of PZ T in the MPB region. 2 Introduction: There is currently enormous interest in th e study of composition induced morphotropic phase transition in a large variety of mixed perovskite solid solutions 1-6 . The morphotropic phase transition in ferroelec tric systems is of immense technological significance, and forms the backbone of present day piezoelectric ceramic industry 7 , as it is accompanied with an anomalous increase in the physical propert ies, like dielectric permittivity and piezoelectric coefficients, around the transition composition. However, there is no universal explanation for this e nhancement of physical properties in different mixed solid solutions, although several models based on factors like phase coexistence 8 , elastic instability 9-11 , polarizat ion rotation 6, 12 and 13 and polarization extension 14, 15 have been proposed. The relevance of morphotropic phase transition for high piezoelectric response was first discovered in the fe rroelectric perovskite solid solution Pb(Zr xTi1-x)O3 (PZT) system 16-18 nearly six decades back. The phase diagram of PZT was shown to contain a morphotropic phase boundary (MPB) across which the structure changes from tetragonal symmetry for Ti-rich compositions to rhombohedral in the Ti-poor region 7 ; the true symmetry of the rhombohedral phase is, however, now known to be monoclinic 19, 20 . While the MPB com position of PZT has been extensively exploited in a wide variety of commercial sensor and actua tor devices, the physics behind the high piezoelectric response at the MPB is still not clear. The first step towards evolving a proper understanding of the phys ics of PZT ceramics is the knowledge of the ground state of PZT in the vicinity of the MPB. There is complete unanimity in the literature that the ground state of PZT in the MPB region is the result of a competition between 3 ferroelectric and antiferrodist ortive (AFD) instabilities a ssociated with zone centre Гସ and zone boundary Rସ optical phonons of the paraelectr ic phase. Such a competition is known in other perovskite compounds and solid solutions also. For example, in SrTiO 3 the AFD instability freezes out at T c 105K 21 and frustrates the subsequent development of ferroelectric (FE) or der 22 . On the otherhand, in BiFeO 3 solid solutions it is now well documented that both the AFD and FE instabilities freeze out together as expected for a trigger type tr ansition 23-25 . In contrast, in PZT, the FE instability freezes out first followed by the freezing out of the AFD instability 26, 27 . The AFD phase transition temperature of PZT, however , decreases on approaching the MPB 28 suggesting its weakening and eventual disapp earance towards the Ti-rich side of the MPB. While recent years have witnessed several interesting developments, both experimental and theoretical, related to the id entification of the true ground state of PZT resulting from the freezing out of both ferroel ectric and AFD instabilities near the MPB, there is still no unanimity about the correct space group of the gr ound state 29-35 . The first structural evidence for a new low temp erature phase of PZT at the MPB composition (x 0.520) was reported by Noheda et al 29, 30 who discovered a tetragonal (P4mm space group) to monoclinic (Cm space group) ph ase transition below room temperature 30 . However, through a low temperature elect ron diffraction study of PZT, Ragini et al 26 showed that this monoclinic phase is not the ground state of PZT in the vicinity of the MPB. They found evidence for a yet a nother low temperature phase which is a superlattice phase stable belo w 210K which cannot be accounted for in terms of the Cm space group reported by Noheda et al 29 . The existence of superlattice phase was 4 further confirmed by neutron powder diffract ion studies 27 which revealed that occurrence of an AFD phase transition involv ing antiphase tilting of oxygen octahedra at Tc 210K for x 0.520. The space group of the superlattice phase was initially proposed to be Pc 27 but was soon corrected as Cc 31 . It was also pointed out subsequently that this Cc phase coexists with a minority Cm phase 33 . The existence of the low temperature superlattice phase in the Cc space group was confirmed by other workers also in their TEM 36, 37
__label__energy	Generating Connected, Simple, and Realistic Cyber Graphs for Smart Grids Osman Boyaci Electrical Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, 77843 osman.boyaci tamu.eduM. Rasoul Narimani College of Engineering Arkansas State University Jonesboro, AR, 72404 mnarimani astate.eduKatherine Davis Electrical Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, 77843 katedavis tamu.eduErchin Serpedin Electrical Engineering Texas A M University College Station, TX, 77843 eserpedin tamu.edu Abstract Smart grids integrate communication systems with power networks to enable power grids operation and command through real-time data collection and control signals. Designing, analyzing, and simulating smart grid infrastructures as well as predicting the impact of power network failures strongly depend on the topologies of the underlying power network and communication system. Despite the substantial impact that the communication systems bring to smart grid operation, the topology of communication systems employed in smart grids was less studied. The power community lacks realistic generative communication system models that can be calibrated to match real-world data. To address this issue, this paper proposes a framework to generate the underlying topological graphs for the communication systems deployed in smart grids by mim- icking the topology of real-world smart grids. In this regard, we have updated the Chung-Lu algorithm to guarantee the communication network connectivity and to match the degree distribution of a real-world smart grid rather than following an expected degree distribution. In addition, key characteristics of communication systems such as diameter, average shortest paths, clustering coefﬁcients, assortativity, and spectral gap were taken into consideration to generate the most similar real-world communication network for smart grid studies. We believe that the proposed algorithm to generate realistic cyber graphs for smart grid studies will beneﬁt the power community. NOMENCLATURE G;V;E Graph, set of nodes, set of edges n; mPZ V ; E u:dPR Degree of a node u SPZnDegree sequence dPZ Max. degree xp q Normalization operation s.t. n 1xp q 1 DPZdDegree vector D r1;:::;ds pKPRdNormalized frequency vector G:gPt0;1uGis graphical (no self loops and parallel edges) G:cPt0;1uGis connected PR Density asm n IPR Diameter as the longest shortest path rspPR Average shortest path ccPR Clustering coefﬁcient aPR Assortativity as the Pearson correlation coefﬁ- cient of degrees between pairs of linked nodes PR Spectral gap as the minimum non-zero eigen- value of the normalized Laplacian This work was supported by NSF under Award Number 1808064.I. I NTRODUCTION Communication systems play a major role in the deploy- ment of smart grids empowering them to be more resistant, secure, reliable and manageable and ensuring connectivity of the grid components. The backbone of communication systems in smart grids is represented by the information and communication technologies that allow two-way communica- tion and automated control. Communication systems improve the efﬁciency and reliability of smart grids by gathering and transmitting a wide variety of data for grid control and decision-making purposes. The integration of cyber commu- nications and control systems into the power distribution infrastructure has a profound impact on the operation, re- liability, and efﬁciency of the power grid. The power and communication systems in modern power grids are highly intertwined. Analyzing, simulating, designing, and predicting the impact of network failures strongly rely on the knowledge of a communication network topology 1 . Thus, studying the underlying communication network topology is essential for the smart grid operation and control 2 . In spite of the many models proposed for electrical power systems 3 , the problem of modeling the underlying com- munication network in smart grids was less studied. In fact, despite the huge efforts deployed for studying smart grids operation and control, modeling smart grids is still at its infancy. There is not enough realistic and practical infor- mation about the topology of the underlying communication network in smart grids. So far, various efforts have focused on developing cyber-physical test models for general use by the power system community 4 7 . These studies consider different characteristics of communication systems including vulnerabilities of communication devices, attack paths, etc., to design a practical cyber layer for cyber-physical power systems. However, taking all these characteristics into con- sideration makes these approaches computationally intractable for larger cyber graphs as the number of attack paths increases exponentially with the number of nodes. To analyze the impact of cyber-graphs on power networks operation, e.g., cascading failure analysis, we ﬁrst need a fast and reliable framework to generate realistic cyber graphs for power test cases irrespective of their size. A few efforts were conducted for generating realistic cyber graphs for power test cases. A graph generator based on the characteristics of Luxembourg smart grid, which is a power-line communication (PLC) system 8 , was presented in 1 to create randomarXiv:2201.04252v1 cs.SI 12 Jan 2022 but realistic smart grid communication topologies. Different characteristics of power grid including nodal degree distribu- tion, graph spectrum and connectivity scaling property, etc., were analyzed in 9 for designing efﬁcient communication schemes for power test cases. Heuristic algorithms were em- ployed in 10 to improve the communication reliability for smart grids at the transmission level. However, many generic graph generation algorithms such as conﬁguration model 11 , Havel-Hakimi algorithm 12 , and Chung-Lu algorithm do not guarantee the graphical and connected graphs properties, and thus are not ﬁt for designing communication systems for smart grids. Horv at-Modes model, on the contrary, yields both connected and graphical outputs. Due to its edge connec- tion mechanism it produces graphs with large diameter and low assortativity, which are not realistic for communication systems. Thus, it is important to propose generative graph algorithms that take into account the real-world characteristics of communication systems in the design process. Power system statistics were leveraged to design optimal communication systems for smart grids in 9 . Similarly, the communication system statistics can be leveraged for designing a realistic communication system for smart grids which is the centerpiece of this paper. Along this parallel, we ﬁrst derive the statistical metrics of a real-world smart grid s communication system and then propose a graph gen- erator based on the statistical information of the smart
__label__energy	1 Natural Gas Short-Term Operation Problem with Dynamics: A Rank Minimization Approach Reza Bayani, Student Member, IEEE and Saeed D. Manshadi, Member, IEEE Abstract Natural gas-ﬁred generation units can hedge against the volatility in the uncertain renewable generation, which may occur during very short periods. It is crucial to utilize models capable of correctly capturing the natural gas network dynamics induced by the volatile demand of gas-ﬁred units. The Weymouth equation is commonly implemented in literature to avoid dealing with the mathematical complications of solving the original governing differential equations of the natural gas dynamics. However, it is shown in this paper that this approach is not reliable in the short-term operation problem . Here, the merit of the non-convex transient model is compared with the simpliﬁed Weymouth equation, and the drawbacks of employing the Weymouth equation are illustrated. The results demonstrate how changes in the natural gas demand are met by adjustment in the pressure within pipelines rather than the output of natural gas suppliers. This work presents a convex relaxation scheme for the original non-linear and non-convex natural gas ﬂow equations with dynamics, utilizing a rank minimization approach to ensure the tightness. The proposed method renders a computationally efﬁcient framework that can accurately solve the non-convex non-linear gas operation problem and accurately capture its dynamics. Also, the results suggest that the proposed model improves the solution optimality and solution time compared to the original non-linear non-convex model. Finally, the scalability of the proposed approach is veriﬁed in the case study. Index Terms natural gas dynamics, convex relaxation, rank minimization, uncertainty, short-term operation. NOMENCLATURE Variables du;t Served gas demand of gas-ﬁred unit mt p;s Mass ﬂow rate through segments of pipes pr(.)Pressure at junctions or segments of pipe ( Pa) P(.)Real power dispatch vG g;t Gas supply of supplier gat timet(kcf) t p;s Lifting variable associated with pipe segments b;h V oltage angle of bus bat hourh (.) (.); (.) (.); (.) (.) Dual variables for equality constraints (.) (.); (.) (.) Dual variables for inequality constraints Sets b2B Set of buses in power network br2BR Set of branches in power network c2C Set of junctions with gas compressors g2G Set of gas suppliers h2H Set of hours i2I Set of units in power network p2P Set of pipes in gas network s2Sp Set of all segments of pipe p t2T Set of time intervals u2U Set of gas-ﬁred units in the power network Reza Bayani is with University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA, and San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 92182, USA. Saeed D. Manshadi is with San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 92182, USA. e-mail: rbayani ucsd.edu; smanshadi sdsu.edu.Parameters c Speed of sound (m s) D Diameter of natural gas pipe (m) dG l;t Demand of natural gas load lat timet f Friction factor of natural gas pipes FC i;FG u Cost function Gas consumption function of unit i prJ j;prJ jLower upper bounds for pressure at junction j PD b;h Real power demand of bus bat hourh vG g;vG g Lower upper bounds for natural gas supplier g xbr Reactance of branch br Ratio of compressors in natural gas network x Length of natural gas pipe segments t Time step duration E; G Value of lost load in electricity gas networks g Cost multiplier of natural gas supplier g( kcf) I. I NTRODUCTION CURRENTLY , natural gas-ﬁred generation accounts for the largest portion of the electricity generation among all types of electricity production in the United States 1 . It is estimated that the share of natural gas-ﬁred units will remain at 37 among all types of electricity generation in the US for the next three decades. Due to their fast-responsive nature, natural gas-ﬁred generation units are mostly utilized during peak hours. In addition to meeting demand ﬂuctuations, they also provide support when renewable generation falls short of the predicted values. The rotatory outage that occurred during the 2021 winter storm of Texas is an example of a renewable scarcity event. Besides, in a highly renewable integrated network such as California s, the dispatch of natural gas-ﬁred units is doubled or tripled in the span of a few hours several days a year. According to the data provided by California Independent System Operator (CAISO), it is observed from Fig. 1 that natural gas-based generations experience evening surges every day 2 . These patterns are mostly caused by the simultaneous drop in total solar and wind generation supply and the diurnal growth in electricity consumption. It is noticed from Fig. 1 that the amount of variations in daily renewable power generation is in the order of GW per hour. Currently, natural gas-ﬁred units are deemed the practical option to hedge against uncertainties of this magnitude due to their extensive penetration. The operation problem of joint electricity and natural gas networks has been a subject of many researchers 3 11 . Among the applications studied in this area, we can mention demand response 3 , renewable generation integration 4 , expansion planning 5 , 6 , and market operations 7 . Natural gas linepack modeling and its effects are also covered in several research works 5 , 8 , 9 . The extentarXiv:2203.05080v1 eess.SY 9 Mar 2022 2 Fig. 1. Gas based and renewable electricity generation 22-28 June 2020 of coordination between electricity and natural gas networks is an important aspect. In some cases, natural gas network equations are merely considered as constraints (i.e., fuel security-constrained) for the optimization problem of the electricity network 9 . On the contrary, sometimes it is the case that the operation of these networks is fully coordinated, and each network is aware of the other network s state 10 , 11 . In any case, regardless of the application or the degree of coordination, utilizing a model capable of correctly capturing and representing the natural gas network dynamics is critical. Natural gas demand is highly varying and depends on various elements including the changes in the
__label__energy	Secondary control activation analysed and predicted with explainable AI Johannes Kruse yx, Benjamin Schäferz , Dirk Witthaut y Institute for Energy and Climate Research - Systems Analysis and Technology Evaluation (IEK-STE), Forschungszentrum Jülich, 52428 Jülich, Germany yInstitute for Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne, 50937 Köln, Germany zSchool of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, London E1 4NS, United Kingdom Faculty of Science and Technology, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, Norway xEmail: jo.kruse fz-juelich.de Abstract The transition to a renewable energy system poses challenges for power grid operation and stability. Secondary control is key in restoring the power system to its reference following a disturbance. Underestimating the necessary control capacity may require emergency measures, such as load shed- ding. Hence, a solid understanding of the emerging risks and the driving factors of control is needed. In this contribution, we establish an explainable machine learning model for the activation of secondary control power in Germany. Training gradient boosted trees, we obtain an accurate description of control activation. Using SHapely Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values, we investigate the dependency between control activation and external features such as the generation mix, forecasting errors, and electricity market data. Thereby, our analysis reveals drivers that lead to high reserve requirements in the German power system. Our transparent approach, utilizing open data and making machine learning models interpretable, opens new scientiﬁc discovery avenues. Index Terms power grid, frequency, control, data-driven, explainable AI, machine learning I. I NTRODUCTION Balancing and control is central for the stable operation of power systems. Secondary control is one of three measures that are typically installed to enforce the balance between power supply and demand 1 . While primary control acts within a few seconds after a disturbance and stabilises the frequency, secondary control activates fully after a few minutes and restores the frequency back to its reference value. Secondary control, also known as automatic Frequency Restoration Re- serve (aFRR) in Continental Europe, activates automatically according to the local power mismatch of the control area. Meanwhile, a lack of control reserves requires costly emer- gency measures such as load shedding. For an appropriate reserve sizing and optimal control design we thus need a precise modelling and a good understanding of the required aFRR volumes. Furthermore, predicting future aFRR volumes can be helpful for trading and bidding strategies. We gratefully acknowledge support from the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF grant no. 03EK3055B) and the Helmholtz Association via the Helmholtz School for Data Science in Life, Earth and Energy (HDS-LEE). This project has received funding from the European Union s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No. 840825.Data-driven models have already proven to be excellent candidates for modelling and predicting aFRR. In the past years, power system data has become increasingly publicly available, thus enabling transparent data-driven analysis and prediction 2 , 3 . Koch et al. have used multiple regression and data analysis to disentangle the German paradox of increasing renewable penetration and decreasing imbalance volumes 4 . Similarly, ref. 5 applies a data-driven analysis to examine the impact of 15 min intra-day trading on imbalances and control volumes in Germany. Apart from ex-post analysis, data-driven prediction methods have been developed for the aFRR market to allow for optimal bidding strategies 6 . From the perspective of Transmission system operators (TSOs), data-driven prediction methods have been used to optimise the dimensioning of aFRR capacities based on historic data 7 . While simple probabilistic methods use parametric models to estimate the probabilities of power imbalances, more advanced methods apply Machine Learning to predict system imbalances from external features 8 . In this context, Artiﬁcial Neural Networks 9 , (non-parametric) kernel density estimation and k-means clustering 10 and LASSO 11 have been applied to predict aFRR volumes. However, complex Machine learning models are often hard to interpret and their black-box character impedes their application in security-relevant areas such as power system control 12 . Here, we present an explainable ML model for aFRR to enhance the value of Machine Learning for power system operation and control. Using publicly available data 13 , 14 , we build an ML model for the ex-post analysis of historic data as well as a day-ahead predictor. We interpret the model with SHapely Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values 15 , which enable rich explanations of ex-post models as well as transparent day-ahead predictors. As our case study, we focus on the German aFRR and demonstrate how loss functions and data sets have to be adapted for either use case. Our publicly available data set 16 comprises two years of 15min resolved data with 85 features from the German and European power system as well as the corresponding aFRR volumes. We start in Section II by describing our data collection and pre-processing procedure as well as the Machine LearningarXiv:2109.04802v1 eess.SY 10 Sep 2021 model. In Section III, we apply our model for an ex-post analysis of dependencies and important features in the German aFRR system. In Section IV, we switch to the day-ahead prediction of aFRR volumes and demonstrate the impact of different loss functions and feature sets, before closing with a discussion in Section V. II. M ETHODS A. Frequency restoration reserve: Markets and data The design of balancing markets determines the procure- ment and activation of control power. In Germany, the TSOs procure their aFRR demand through an anonymous auc- tion 6 , 14 . First, suppliers of aFRR have to fulﬁl pre- qualiﬁcation criteria such as a minimum activation speed to participate in the auction. As of September 2020, hydro- and gas-driven power plants represent the largest part (75 ) of the prequaliﬁed aFRR capacity 17 . Second, the TSOs tender a demand for the required reserve capacity and energy, which is done for all four German TSOs together (grid control cooper- ation). Then, prequaliﬁed parties can sell reserve capacity (in MW) on the capacity market, which they must hold available. In addition, a supplier can omit this step
__label__energy	TRANSLATING THE INTERNAL CLIMATE VARIABILITY FROM CLIMATE VARIABLES TO HYDROPOWER PRODUCTION Divya Upadhyay Discipline of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, IndiaSudhanshu Dixit Discipline of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, India Udit Bhatia Discipline of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, India bhatia.u iitgn.ac.in ABSTRACT Quantifying uncertainties in estimating future hydropower production directly or indirectly affects India s energy security, planning, and management. The chaotic and nonlinear nature of atmospheric processes results in considerable Internal Climate Variability (ICV) for future projections of climate variables. Multiple initial condition ensembles and multi-model ensembles of earth system models are often used to analyze the role of ICV and model uncertainty in precipitation and temperature. However, there are limited studies focusing on quantifying the role of internal variability on impact variables, including hydropower production. In this study, we analyze the role of internal variability and model uncertainty on three prominent hydropower plants of India using multiple initial condition ensembles of the EC-Earth3 and multiple models from CMIP6. We estimate the streamﬂow projections for all ensembles using the Variable Inﬁltration Capacity (VIC) hydrological model for four time periods, historical (1985-2014), near-term (2015-2044), mid-term (2045-2074) and far-term (2075-2100). We estimate maximum hydropower production generated using monthly release and hydraulic head available at the reservoir. We also analyzed the role of bias correction in hydropower production. The results show that ICV plays a signiﬁcant role in estimating streamﬂow and hydropower estimation for monsoon and throughout the year, respectively. Model uncertainty contributes more to total uncertainty than ICV in estimating the streamﬂow and potential hydropower. However, ICV is increasing towards the far-term. We also show that bias correction does not preserve the internal variability in estimating the streamﬂow. Although there is an increase in uncertainty for estimated streamﬂow, mean hydropower shows the decrease towards the far-term for February to May, more prominent for MICE than MME. The results suggest a need to incorporate uncertainty due to internal variability for addressing power security in changing climate scenarios. Keywords Internal climate variability model uncertainty hydropower production streamﬂow estimation bias correction 1 Introduction Sustaining an optimal reservoir operation under various uncertainties is challenging in changing climate for hydropower production. The increasing population, urbanization and industrialization raise the demand for the energy consumption of fossil fuels, water, material, and available natural resources, which further poses the issue of energy security and clean environment 1,2 . The large energy requirement in India is fulﬁlled by non-renewable sources, which is fast depleting 3 . Hydropower is a vital source of renewable energy, which provides over 72 of all renewable energy globally 4 . However, only about 17 of hydropower potential of 150,000 MW has been tapped in India 5 . For India, hydropower and small hydropower are the second-highest contributors towards renewable energy consumption, which is close to 12 of the total capacity 6 . The impacts of climate change on hydropower production affect energy generation in thearXiv:2203.01596v1 physics.ao-ph 3 Mar 2022 Translating the internal climate variability from climate variables to hydropower production near term and by the end of the 21st century 7,8,9,10 . Thus, tremendous opportunities in hydropower generation and its future expansion exist, which help us meet the soaring energy demands. However, hydropower production is directly related to the water availability in reservoirs that depends on streamﬂow, which is characterized by uncertainties of the processes that result in streamﬂow 7 . The uncertainty associated with precipitation, temperature and wind pattern of a region affects the streamﬂow uncertainty 11,12 . 13 have analyzed the effects of precipitation uncertainty on discharge calculations for 294 river basins worldwide and shown that average precipitation uncertainty (about 30 ) can lead to higher uncertainty in discharge (about 90 ). Quantiﬁcation of uncertainties associated with future projections of streamﬂow is a critical challenge for climate change impact studies 14 as it necessitates obtaining the range of possible future variations in streamﬂow projections 15 . Characterizing and quantifying uncertainty projection of streamﬂow and hydropower potential considering the climate change projections is important to plan for adaptation and mitigation 16 . It is essential to quantify and discuss the role of different uncertainties and their propagation to future hydrological projections as it is a fundamental characteristic of prediction 17 . The estimated variables uncertainty sources are forcing uncertainty, model uncertainty and internal climate variability 18,16,19 . The relative importance of different uncertainty sources varies depending on the type of variable, temporal and spatial scales, and speciﬁcally its nature 18,16,20 . For example, model uncertainty reﬂects our lack of knowledge or inability to encapsulate the existing knowledge within the climate models, and it is considered as potentially reducible as models improve 16 . The Multi-Model Ensembles (MMEs) are generally used to estimate the model uncertainty 21 . Whereas, Internal Climate Variability (ICV), which refers to natural variability that arises from processes in the coupled land, biosphere, ocean, atmosphere, and cryosphere system in the absence of external forcing 22,23 , considered as irreducible 24,25,26,27,28,29 . ICV dominates climate uncertainty over decadal prediction horizons at regional to local scales, where stakeholders are more interested 30 . It is typically handled by considering Multiple Initial Condition Ensembles (MICE), assuming that it satisfactorily captures the internal variability 22,31 . The MICE are generated by applying minor perturbations to the initial state of the model such that the different climate projections behave as surrogates of climate variability 26, 32, 33, 30, 34 . The importance of ICV has received considerable attention recently from scientiﬁc community 16,35,22,29,28,31 . Several studies have explored the role of internal variability to assess future climate outcomes such as surface air temperature, a vertical proﬁle of recent tropical temperature trends and precipitation 16,26,35,22,29,36 . A few studies have quantiﬁed role of ICV in estimating streamﬂow 37,38 , extreme precipitation 28,31 , sea-level rise 39 , air quality and associated health risks in a warming world 40 . 41 have criticised initial condition large ensembles as they are resource-intensive, redundant, and biased. Despite this criticism, they have shown
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	Inferring the eﬀect of interventions on COVID-19 transmission networks Simon Syga1, Diana David-Rus2, Yannik Sch alte3,4, Michael Meyer-Hermann5,6, Haralampos Hatzikirou1,7, Andreas Deutsch1, 1Center for Information Services and High Performance Computing, Technische Universit at Dresden, N othnitzer Straße 46, 01062 Dresden, Germany 2Bavarian Health and Food Safety State Authority (LGL) Research division, Veterin arstraße 2, 85764, Oberschleißheim, Germany 3Institute of Computational Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum M unchen German Research Center for Environmental Health, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany 4Center for Mathematics, Technische Universit at M unchen, 85748 Garching, Germany 5Department of Systems Immunology and Braunschweig Integrated Centre of Systems Biology (BRICS), Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig, Germany 6Institute for Biochemistry, Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Technische Universit at Braunschweig, Braunschweig, Germany 7Mathematics Department, Khalifa University, P.O. Box 127788, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates andreas.deutsch tu-dresden.de Abstract Countries around the world implement nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Design of eﬃcient NPIs requires identiﬁcation of the structure of the disease transmission network. We here identify the key parameters of the COVID-19 transmission network for time periods before, during, and after the application of strict NPIs for the ﬁrst wave of COVID-19 infections in Germany combining Bayesian parameter inference with an agent-based epidemiological model. We assume a Watts-Strogatz small-world network which allows to distinguish contacts within clustered cliques and unclustered, random contacts in the population, which have been shown to be crucial in sustaining the epidemic. In contrast to other works, which use coarse-grained network structures from anonymized data, like cell phone data, we consider the contacts of individual agents explicitly. We show that NPIs drastically reduced random contacts in the transmission network, increased network clustering, and resulted in a change from an exponential to a constant regime of new cases. In this regime, the disease spreads like a wave with a ﬁnite wave speed that depends on the number of contacts in a nonlinear fashion, which we can predict by May 18, 2021 1 18arXiv:2012.03846v2 q-bio.PE 17 May 2021 mean ﬁeld theory. Our analysis indicates that besides the well-known transition between exponential increase and exponential decrease in the number of new cases, NPIs can induce a transition to another, previously unappreciated regime of constant new cases. Introduction The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has dramatic consequences at a global scale. Until herd immunity has been reached through vaccination, countries rely on non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) of varying severity, like canceling big events, closing schools, and shutting down businesses to reduce virus transmission. An important goal of NPI design is to prevent those contacts in the population which contribute the most to disease spread while allowing less dangerous contacts. Data from several countries indicate that the eﬀect of early, less strict NPIs, for example cancellation of large events, had a profound eﬀect on the spread of the disease 1 . Other ﬁndings suggest that only a full lockdown reduced the spread noticeably 2 , although the implementation of the lockdown varied dramatically between individual countries. For example, during the ﬁrst wave, Germany did not implement a full lockdown but enacted contact restrictions and closure of nonessential businesses so that people were still allowed to leave their homes and meet in small groups. In several countries, following the implementations of various NPIs, the curves of cumulative infections left the exponential regime and entered a linear one, corresponding to a constant regime of new infections, and an eﬀective reproduction number around 1, see Fig. 1 a-c. This is remarkable, because these countries are quite heterogeneous regarding their demographics, economic situation and the implemented NPIs. Epidemiological models that assume an underlying random transmission network predict this behavior only for a particularly ﬁne-tuned set of parameters, which contrasts with the robustness of the decline in the reproduction number observed in reality 3 6 . Crucially, this is still true for detailed compartment models that incorporate the eﬀect of test-trace-isolate (TTI) eﬀorts, asmptomatic spreaders, or age-dependent spreading based on contact matrices 7, 8 and for agent-based models that rely on coarse-grained contact networks, for example created from anonymized cell phone data, which assume a well-mixed situation on a mesoscopic scale of hundreds of agents 9, 10 . Thurner et al. suggested that the linear regime of cumulative infections is a consequence of small-world transmission networks with high clustering 11 , see Fig. 1 d-i. A similar model was able to explain the disease dynamics during the SARS outbreak in Hong Kong in 2003 12 . Komarova et. al. discussed the power law behavior of the dynamics of COVID-19 spread in the context of a metapopulation model 13 , while the power law dynamics during the hard lockdown in Chinese provinces could be explained by a compartment model that assumes that the susceptible population was quarantined on a time scale comparable to the infectious period of the disease, so that the epidemic comes to a halt quickly 14 . May 18, 2021 2 18 Identiﬁcation of the underlying transmission network is not only crucial for the design of eﬀective NPIs, but also for assessing other properties of COVID-19 spread, such as the herd immunity threshold 15 . The heterogeneous topology of real social networks is reﬂected by a small average path length between any two nodes (small world property), a high clustering in the network (the probability of two nodes being connected is much larger if they have a neighbor in common) and by a power-law distribution (scale-free property) of the node degree 16, 17 . Network-based epidemiological models allow to consider the eﬀects of heterogeneity with respect to the type and frequency of contacts in the population, i. e. how often people meet and whom, by representing all agents as nodes of a network and the contacts in the population by links between these nodes 18, 19 . For example, the spread of diseases is strengthened on scale-free networks so that the epidemic threshold is reduced 20 22 . Here, we argue that during the period of severe NPIs, like contact restrictions, the most important feature of real transmission networks is their strong
__label__energy	Energy-Efficient Motion Planner for Legged Robots Alexander Schperberg , Marcel Menner , and Stefano Di Cairano Abstract We propose an online motion planner for legged robot locomotion with the primary objective of achieving energy efficiency. The conceptual idea is to leverage a placement set of footstep positions based on the robot s body position to determine when and how to execute steps. In particular, the proposed planner uses virtual placement sets beneath the hip joints of the legs and executes a step when the foot is outside of such placement set. Furthermore, we propose a parameter design framework that considers both energy-efficiency and robustness measures to optimize the gait by changing the shape of the placement set along with other parameters, such as step height and swing time, as a function of walking speed. We show that the planner produces trajectories that have a low Cost of Transport (CoT) and high robustness measure, and evaluate our approach against model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL) and motion imitation using biological dog motion priors as the reference. Overall, within low to medium velocity range, we show a 50.4 improvement in CoT and improved robustness over model-free RL, our best performing baseline. Finally, we show ability to handle slippery surfaces, gait transitions, and disturbances in simulation and hardware with the Unitree A1 robot. I. I NTRODUCTION Legged robots excel on uneven terrain and in human- centric environments, but their efficiency is hindered by energy losses from foot-ground impacts, which accelerate battery depletion and increase motor heat, reducing operation time. Thus, formulating new energy conservation strate- gies are worthwhile endeavors. Hardware solutions such as Ranger 1 and ANYmal 2 , reduce energy consumption using passive dynamics and mechanical springs. Software- based solutions, the focus of this work, can include various motion planning strategies, including optimization 3 , Rein- forcement Learning (RL) 4 , and vision-based methods 5 . Although energy-efficient rewards or cost terms can be incorporated into the optimization or learning process, it is often challenging to assign significant weight to these terms without encountering local optima issues, where the robot fails to follow the desired velocity commands or avoids movements entirely. Our approach achieves energy-efficient locomotion using a simple, geometry-based footstep planner that constrains motion based on fundamental physical principles. Elliptical placement sets beneath each hip dictate when and where steps occur. The planner s parameters ellipse shape, swing Corresponding author Alexander Schperberg, and Stefano Di Cairano are with Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories (MERL), Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. schperberg, dicairano merl.com Marcel Menner was with Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories (MERL) during part of the work of this paper, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA. menner ieee.org Motion Imitation MoCap to Re-targeting Re-targeting to Motion ImitationEnergy -Efficient Motion Planner Model -based Control RL Analytical OrEllipse -based Planner Parameter Selection Robot10 Hz 10 Hz StateBody Footstep referencePD Swing Controller MPC Stance Controller PD Low Level Controller 𝜏motorFoot in ContactFoot not in Contact 𝜏ref Model -free RL Reward function Velocity Tracking Regularization 6 50 Hz 400 Hz 200 Hz(A) (B) (C) 50 Hz 50 HzFig. 1. We compare and evaluate our energy-efficient motion planner (A) (Sec. II), with motion imitation (B) (motion dataset from 6 ) and model- free reinforcement learning (C) baselines. time, and step height are optimized to minimize the Cost of Transport (CoT) and maximize robustness to avoid singular- ity and favor non-slipping configurations. These parameters can be derived offline or adjusted through RL for improved disturbance handling. The proposed planner produces a more natural gait, where the robot moves its feet only when necessary, as defined by the placement set. Although natural gaits can also be achieved by imitating animal motion 6 , to the best of our knowledge, there has not been a clear analysis to evaluate whether imitating motion derived from biological animals is actually more energy- efficient for lower degree of freedom robots. Thus, in this work, we use CoT and robustness measures to compare our method against not only typical model-free RL approaches 7 , but also against motion imitation, where the reference motions are derived from real animal movements (see Fig. 1). Overall, we present the following contributions : 1) An online motion planning framework that naturally determines the gait by minimizing energy consumption using ellipses beneath the hip joints. Simulation and hardware experiments are presented. 2) The ellipses, along with step height and swing time of each leg are designed based on a parameter study that considers CoT and robustness measures. This study is achieved analytically and also through exploration of parameters using RL. Both are compared against each other for efficacy. 3) Our approach is compared against baselines, including model-free RL, and motion imitation using real biolog- ical dog motion priors as the reference.arXiv:2503.06050v1 cs.RO 8 Mar 2025 A. Related Works Motion planning is a fundamental requirement for legged robot locomotion. Several approaches for stable motion have been proposed such as model-based (Sec. I-A.1) and learning-based methods including RL and motion imitation (Sec.I-A.2). Efficacy of these methods are typically evaluated primarily for velocity tracking, and only a few for energy- efficient locomotion (Sec. I-A.3). 1) Model-based: The Raibert controller 8 provides sta- ble trajectories for legged robots that is computationally efficient, but not suitable for rough terrain nor considers energy-efficiency. For rough terrain, optimization-based tech- niques can be used, optimizing for the Zero-Moment Point (ZMP) through the Linear Inverted Pendulum approach 9 . Trajectory Optimization (TO) is employed if footsteps are not specified a priori , which helps expand the robot s feasible workspace, and optimizes over contact forces using more complex centroidal dynamics 10 . However, TO methods are computationally expensive and difficult to apply for online- replanning. 2) Reinforcement Learning and Motion Imitation: To optimize over a high-precision model while being computa- tionally efficient, model-free RL methods have become pop- ular 7 , 11 , such as using a student teacher policy in 7 . However, these methods require extensive hyperparameter tuning, heavy reward engineering, and safety consideration is less relevant as the underlying network output
__label__energy	Towards carbon neutral scientific societies: A case study with the International Adsorption Society Anne Streb,1,2 Ryan Lively,3 Philip Llewellyn,4 Akihiko Matsumoto,5 Marco Mazzotti,1 Ronny Pini,6 Benoit Coasne7, 1 Separation Processes Laboratory, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, Zurich 8092, Switzerland 2 Climeworks AG, Zurich 8050, Switzerland 3 School of Chemical Biomolecular Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA 4 TotalEnergies, One Tech, CSTJF -Pau, France 5 Department of Applied Chemistry and Life Science, Toyohashi University of Technology, 1 -1, Hibarigaoka, Tempaku -cho, Toyohashi, Aichi, 441 -8580, Japan 6 Department of Chemical Engineering, Imperial College London, London, UK 7 Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, LIPhy, France To whom correspondence should be addressed: benoit.coasne univ -grenoble -alpes.fr With increasing concerns over climate change, scientists must imperatively acknowledge their share in CO 2 emissions.1,2 Considering the large emissions associated with scientific traveling especially international conferences initiatives to mitigate such impact are blooming.2-4 With the COVID -19 pandemic shattering our notion of private professional interactions,5-7 the moment should be seized to reinvent science conferences and collaborations with a model respectful of the environment. Yet, despite e fforts to reduce the footprint of conferences, there is a lack of a robust approach based on reliable numbers (emissions, carbon offsetting removals, etc.) to accompany this shift of paradigm. Here, considering a representative scientific society, the Inte rnational Adsorption Society,8 we report on a case study of the problem: making conferences carbon neutral while respecting the needs of scientists. We first provide a quantitative analysis of the CO 2 emissions for the IAS conference in 2022 related to acc ommodation, catering, flights, etc. Second, we conduct two surveys probing our community view on the carbon footprint of our activities. These surveys mirror each other, and were distributed two years before and in the aftermath of our triennial conference (also corresponding to pre post COVID times). By combining the different parts, we propose ambitious recommendations to shape the future of conferences. As the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports increasingly pessimistic scenarios f or Earth s surface temperature by the end of the century9, there is an increasing drive to drastically decrease our greenhouse gas emissions both at the individual and collective levels. For many of us, such efforts already translate into small practical climate -positive actions in our daily life. Moreover, the fact that emissions from professional activities can largely surpass those from the private sphere has resulted in action to decrease CO 2 emissions in all fields relevant to the primary, secondary, tertiary, and quaternary sectors. For quite some time, many professional sectors have considered themselves as role models owing to the limited environmental impact of their activities. This is the case of the science and research field, which has conside red its activities as almost carbon neutral, in stark contrast to the industrial and transportation sectors. In the last few years, by analyzing their carbon footprint, many academic and industrial scientific communities have recognized the severe impact o f science -related traveling to attend conferences and to visit collaborators.10-13 For some of these communities, acknowledging such negative impact is perceived as paradoxical, because their activities are specifically devoted to developing technologies t hat mitigate climate change and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This is the case of the International Adsorption Society (IAS), which serves in the present paper as the model for a real case study to identify options to make carbon neutral scientific so cieties compatible with cutting -edge innovative research. With its activities centered on adsorption technologies to design processes for environmental, health and energy applications, the IAS is at the forefront of research and development on carbon captu re and storage. Our international society, which gathers a few hundred researchers and engineers both from academia and industry, is strongly committed to reducing its carbon footprint as witnessed by the appointment of an IAS working group on carbon neutr ality as early as 2019. While evidence exists on the excessive carbon footprint of scientific conferences, solving the problem of such large CO 2 emissions cannot be as simple as making all scientific conferences on -line or continuing business as usual while financially compensating through available carbon offsets. The solution to this complex equation lies in finding the balance so as the undisputable benefits of scientific interactions are weighed against their associated CO 2 emissions. On the one han d, any optimal, viable solution needs to accurately account for the carbon footprint of scientific interactions (e.g. conferences, collaborations, visiting programs). On the other hand, it must consider the benefits of such exchanges on the quality of sci entific outcomes. One example is the stringent need for the generation of the younger scientists to meet physically with each other and with their more senior colleagues to form efficient professional networks for the next decades. The quantification of the carbon footprint of scientific and engineering research needs to rely on a robust and transparent strategy. Unfortunately, there is a lack of consolidated datasets and best practices, despite several interesting initiatives having already originated in other communities. To fill this gap, this contribution proposes a rational and transparent approach based on the following two -step strategy. First, considering that the IAS carbon footprint is largely dominated by its international conference held every three years, we present a robust CO 2 emission assessment based on accurate attendance numbers and cross -checking of data from different reliable sources. Second, we analyze the results from two surveys that were distributed to assess the opinion of the IAS community regarding its carbon footprint and conferencing habits. While the first survey was distributed in summer 2020, the second survey was sent and analyzed in the aftermath of our latest international conference in Broomfield, USA in May 2022. By com paring the answers to the two surveys, which are analyzed in the light of our CO 2 emissions assessment, we are in the position to formulate practical recommendations with the goal to establish a transparent strategy to address this intrinsically
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates educational technology and online learning platforms for distance education systems.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__energy	Probabilistic Analysis of Masked Loads with Aggregated Photovoltaic Production Shaohui Liu Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering The University of Texas at Austin Austin, TX, USA shaohui.liu utexas.eduDaniel Adrian Maldonado Emil M. Constantinescu Mathematics and Computer Science Argonne National Laboratory Lemont, IL, USA fmaldonadod, emconsta g anl.gov Abstract In this paper we present a probabilistic analysis framework to estimate behind-the-meter photovoltaic generation in real time. We develop a forward model consisting of a spatiotemporal stochastic process that represents the photovoltaic generation and a stochastic differential equation with jumps that represents the demand. We employ this model to disaggregate the behind-the-meter photovoltaic generation using net load and irradiance measurements. Index Terms distributed PV system, SDE, spatiotemporal model, real-time prediction I. I NTRODUCTION The increase in penetration of user-sized distributed energy resource (DER) systems poses challenges for the planning and operation of the grid. A major issue with behind-the-meter (BTM) solar generation is the lack of direct measurements of the instantaneous power injections. Furthermore, the volatility of solar generation production caused by weather variability (e.g., cloud coverage) brings additional uncertainty to forecasts 1 . This lack of observability makes it difﬁcult to quantify the aggregated effect of BTM photovoltaics (PV) generation on the transmission grid. Proper characterization of BTM PV generation in real time would allow utilities to prepare for and quantify the risk of situations in which sudden ramps in generation occur or in which a large amount of DER systems trip after a fault. Given the constraints that utilities face with respect to measurements, forecasts, and parameters of inverters; recent studies have investigated the issue of disaggregating the PV power signal from the measurements or inferring the instantaneous PV power through irradiance measurements and other proxy regressors. One can consider the disaggregation problem as an approximate algebraic relationship: PNET PMASKED PPV (1) wherePNETis the net power seen by the transmission grid (also called measured power), PPVis the aggregated power generated by the distributed PV inverters, and PMASKED is the This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Ofﬁce of Science, Advanced Scientiﬁc Computing Research under Contract DE-AC02-06CH11357.actual aggregated load demand that remains masked by the PV production. In a high loading and high PV production scenario, the utility might underestimate the actual load in the feeder, and a voltage transient that trips a large amount of PV inverters may jeopardize the dynamic stability of the system. Several researchers are investigating how to disaggregate the masked load from the net load signals. Vrettos et al. 2 characterize the literature in three main groups: transpo- sition model approaches, data-driven approaches, and hybrid approaches. The transposition methods involve extrapolating irradiance to a set of inverter models to compute the PV generation. For instance, Engerer and Mills 3 use proxy measurements from a PV inverter together with the clear-sky index and a PV inverter performance model to extrapolate the generation of the rest of the inverters. In 4 , Killinger et al. further delve into the cases in which the parameters of the PV inverters are not uniform, and they develop a projection method to calculate the global horizontal irradiance (GHI) using a proxy power measurement. The GHI measures the total amount of irradiance received by a ﬂat surface at the ground from above, and is a central indicator of the solar energy that can be produced by PV panels. With regard to the data-driven methods, Sossan et al. 5 and Patel et al. 6 analyze the impact of global horizontal irradiance ﬂuctuations on the time series and use this information to desegregate the PV generation from the net load signal. The hybrid approaches include 7 and 8 . In the former publication, neural networks together with load forecasts and PV production models are used to forecast the net load. In the latter, Bright et al. use satellite-derived GHI estimates in 10-minute intervals, together with PV generation models, to interpolate to the aggregated PV generation. In this paper we propose a novel algorithm for the dis- aggregation of instantaneous PV generation in a feeder that falls into the category of hybrid methods. Our methodology differs from previous work in that we consider high-frequency measurements of irradiance and net load. It has been shown in 9 and 10 that both the load and the PV generation, in short time intervals, can be characterized as stochastic processes with certain properties. To extract information from the higher-resolution time se- ries, we ﬁt statistics such as temporal variance, autocorrelation 21st Power Systems Computation Conference PSCC 2020Porto, Portugal June 29 July 3, 2020arXiv:2004.10334v1 eess.SY 21 Apr 2020 and variogram, which allow us to obtain the parameters of the underlying masked load process, provided that we have a model for the spatial irradiance and the installed PV panels. While modeling the instantaneous PV generation with irradiance data and inverter parameters can be error-prone, by leveraging the spatiotemporal statistics produced by the irradiance ﬂuctuation we can tolerate higher errors in the model. To this end, we develop a model for the geographically distributed PV aggregation power injection with limited solar irradiance measurements. We then design a modiﬁed stochastic differential equation model based on the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process with jumps to simulate the masked load yielding a jump-diffusion process 9 . The net load model then results from the combination of the two submodels. We further design a disaggregation algorithm to mitigate the error of masked load estimation caused by the estimated PV generation. Simulation studies with real recorded solar irradiance data and load data recorded by PMU show that the spatiotemporal model with the disaggregation algorithm is a tenable method to reduce dis- aggregation error. Moreover, simulations indicate that we can accurately estimate the aggregated PV active power generation at a distribution feeder with limited sensor deployment. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In section II we model the PV power with a novel spatial Gaussian process (GP) for predicting solar irradiance under limited observations. In section III we model the load power by
__label__energy	1 Deep Decarbonization of Multi-Energy Systems: A Carbon-Oriented Framework with Cross Disciplinary Technologies Jian Shi, Dan Wang, Chenye Wu, and Zhu Han Abstract The retirement of unabated coal power plants, the plummeting cost of renewable energy technologies, along with more aggressive public policies and regulatory reforms, are occurring at an unprecedented speed to decarbonize the power and energy systems towards the 2030 and 2050 climate goals. This article aims to establish a carbon-oriented framework to examine the role carbon emission is playing within a power grid that is rapidly transitioning to an integrated multi-energy system. We divide the carbon ﬂows in the multi-energy systems into three stages: carbon allowances initialization allocation, exchanging pricing, and circulation. Then, we discuss how cross- disciplinary technologies, such as game theory, optimization, and machine learning can facilitate the modeling and analysis of the proposed framework. Index Terms Carbon footprint, Energy transition, Deep de- carbonization, Multi-energy systems, Climate change I. I NTRODUCTION Electric power systems are the backbone of the global energy system and account for 25 of worldwide greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Driven by the urgent need to combat climate change 1 , the electric power industry has started to shift its focus towards the near-term urgency of deploy- ingdeep decarbonization to meet the immediate emission reduction goal by 2030 2 while fostering a pathway for a much more profound and deeper zero-emission transformation for long-term climate safety by 2050. The electricity grid is rapidly transitioning to an integrated multi-energy system with the electricity system being the core, renewable energy as the primary energy sources, and supported by storage, hydro, bioenergy, natural gas, responsive demand, and electric vehicles 3 . A low-carbon electric power system will also enable the clean electriﬁcation of transportation, buildings, and industry sectors to support full economy-wide decarbonization. However, there are many challenges to achieve these ambi- tious goals. The existing electric power system is characterized by long-term assets, well-established regulatory structures, and rigid operational conventions. Moving forward, the reinvention of the traditional electricity system to integrate the complex dynamics of multi-energy supply and carriers has brought fun- damental changes for the power community who used to only concern the electrical aspect of the system. The planning, operation, and modeling of the future multi-energy system necessitate stronger and more holistic collaboration across multiple energy sectors to maintain the desired operational characteristics and societal responsibilities, with enhanced energy efﬁciency, ﬂexibility, and affordability. Meanwhile, with decarbonization as the key priority, a carbon-centered systematic framework also becomes necessary to pave the pathway of the low zero-carbon transition of the multi-energy system and develop fundamentally new methods, as well as modiﬁcations and supplements to existing conventions, to meet the 2030 climate goal. This article aims to establish a carbon-oriented framework to Total Carbon Allowance Free Carbon Allowance Free Carbon Allowance Carbon Allowance Auction Carbon Information FlowCarbon Market Trading Energy Producer iLegislator Regulator Electricity Market Trading Multi -energy Market Trading Energy Flow Carbon Footprint Flow Carbon MeterEnergy Producer j Energy Consumer pCarbon Allowance Initialization and Allocation Carbon Allowance Exchange and Pricing Carbon Allowance Circulation Energy Consumer q Carbon Display Fig. 1. Carbon ﬂows through the multi-energy system facilitate the multi-energy system s effective decarbonization and deliver reliable, secure, clean, and cost-effective energy services. In particular, motivated by the tremendous role decarbonization will be playing in the future energy system, we take a different route than the traditional literature, which primarily scoped from the electricity and energy perspective concentrating on one piece of technological solutions. We fo- cus on developing a carbon perspective to analyze and exploit the synergy between the life cycle of carbon emissions in the energy value chain. Speciﬁcally, we divide the carbon ﬂows through the multi-energy system into three stages (see Fig. 1): carbon allowance initiation and allocation ,carbon allowance exchange and pricing , and carbon allowance circulation , based on which interdisciplinary researches, e.g., optimization, game theory, and machine learning, can be per- formed to collectively accelerate the carbon neutral transition of the energy sector as discussed in Section V.arXiv:2210.09432v1 eess.SY 17 Oct 2022 2 II. C ARBON ALLOWANCE INITIATION AND ALLOCATION To establish a cap-and-trade carbon-emission trading (CET) system, the ﬁrst step for a regulator is to initialize the emission cap based on its emission reduction target as well as other policy-level assessment, such as technology readiness, mitigation potential, and costs. Then, the capped amount of carbon allowances, as an asset, has to be assigned to the market participants. The choice of this allocation directly affects how the energy producers participating in the CET react to the carbon price signal and then determine their optimal operational and investment strategies. Therefore, the selection of the correct allocation strategy is the key to establish a well- functioned and competitive market, preserve the appropriate incentives for emission mitigation, and ensure economic ef- ﬁciency. Currently, there existing two general strategies to allocate the carbon allowance: Strategy 1. Free allocation through grandparenting : In this approach, carbon allowances are allocated to energy producers completely free based on historical benchmarks, such as emission intensity levels and power energy generation, as well as an assistance rate . The assistance rate is used as a policy-level tool to scale the level of emissions that receive a free allocation. While the grandparenting approach is straightforward and easy to implement, it draws constant criticism since grandfathering all carbon allowances creates a large windfall proﬁts for energy producers. This is because the marginal cost resulted from the CET system would be ultimately passed to the consumers in the form of higher electricity prices. Therefore, giving away the allowances would hardly impose any additional cost to the energy producers, resulting in increased proﬁts and asset values. Given its draw- backs, free allocation through grandparenting is considered a transitional approach. For instance, it has only been used in the EU ETS in Phase 1 (2005-2007) where almost all the allowances were given out for free and Phase 2 (2008- 2012) where free allocation fell to around 90 of the total allowances. In Phase 3
__label__nonenergy	Furthermore, this paper discusses machine learning algorithms for image recognition and computer vision applications in autonomous vehicles and robotics systems.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses advances in telecommunications and 5G network infrastructure development for mobile communications.
__label__energy	1 Analyzing and Mitigating the Impacts of GMD and EMP Events on the Electrical Grid with PowerModelsGMD.jl Adam Mate1, Arthur K. Barnes1, Russell W. Bent1, and Eduardo Cotilla-Sanchez2 Abstract Geomagnetic disturbances and E3 high-altitude elec- tromagnetic pulse events pose a substantial threat to the elec- trical grid by adversely impacting and damaging high-voltage transmission networks and equipment. To evaluate the risks and mitigate the potential effects of these hazards, this work proposes PowerModelsGMD.jl (abbr. PMsGMD). PMsGMD is an open-source Julia package that solves for quasi-dc line ﬂow and ac power ﬂow problems in a system subjected to geomagnetically induced currents. Unlike commercially available software solutions, it is extensible and applicable to a variety of problems. The ﬂexibility of this framework is demonstrated by applying it to the problem of identifying mitigation strategies via line switching for a time-extended transformer heating problem. An overview of PMsGMD is presented in this paper: introduc- tion to its design, validation of its implementation, demonstration of its performance and effectiveness, and a description of how it may be applied to aid system-operation decisions. Index Terms power system analysis, geomagnetic disturbance, electromagnetic pulse, optimal power ﬂow, Julia, open-source. I. I NTRODUCTION High-impact low-frequency (abbr. HILF) events are the greatest threat to the continuous and reliable operation of our energy infrastructures. Such events have the potential to cause unpredictable system-wide disruptions and long-term damage in the electrical grid, a key component of the critical infrastructures. Geomagnetic disturbances (abbr. GMDs) and high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (abbr. HEMP) events are among these extreme hazards 1 , 2 . GMDs are caused by intense solar activity: charged and magnetized particles are blown away from the Sun during severe space weather, which then interact with and disrupt the Earth s magnetic ﬁeld causing rapid changes in its conﬁgura- tion. These disturbances are mainly driven by large solar ﬂares and associated coronal mass ejections during solar maximums, and by co-rotating interaction regions (high-speed solar winds) during solar minimums 3 5 . HEMP events are caused by nuclear explosions detonated high up in the atmosphere. These are series of electromagnetic waveforms, covering times from nanoseconds to hundreds of seconds, that propagate to the Earth s surface. Three main waveforms are generated during a detonation, among which the E3 late-time waveform produces electric ﬁelds with com- parable time scales and area coverage as those of geomagnetic storms. Even though GMDs tend to have higher energy, 1The authors are with the Advanced Network Science Initiative at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL ANSI), Los Alamos, NM 87544 USA. Email: famate, abarnes, rbent g lanl.gov. 2The author is with the School of Electrical Engineering and Com- puter Science, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA. Email: fecsg oregonstate.edu. LA-UR-19-29623. Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.E3 HEMP events generate high enough peak ﬁeld levels that makes them comparable to severe GMD events in terms of impact and caused damage 4 , 6 . Both GMD and E3 HEMP events pose a risk to the electrical grid by generating geomagnetically induced currents (abbr. GICs), quasi-dc currents that appear in the conductive infrastructure and ﬂow into the high-voltage network through the neutrals of power transformers 4 7 . GICs may ad- versely impact transmission networks and equipment as they have the potential to induce harmonics by causing half-cycle saturation in transformers. Harmonics may lead to the misop- eration of protective devices, causing tripping of over-current relays. Premature aging, lasting damage, or complete failure of large high-voltage transformers due to overheating and thermal degradation is also a great threat. Increased reactive power consumption, caused by the circulating GICs in the system, may lead to the loss of reactive power support and to voltage collapses. In the worst case, widespread infrastructure damage and tripping of transmission lines may result in cascading failures and extended power disruptions 8 12 . Understanding the danger that power systems face is crit- ically important. This paper presents an overview of Pow- erModelsGMD.jl1(abbr. PMsGMD), a free and open-source package for power system simulation, which was speciﬁcally designed to evaluate the risks and mitigate the impacts of the above mentioned hazards. The PMsGMD framework is implemented in Julia 13 , a high-level just-in-time compiled programming language designed speciﬁcally for scientiﬁc computing. It is an extension to the PowerModels.jl (abbr. PMs) platform 14 , a Julia JuMP package for solving and evaluating steady-state power network optimization problems. JuMP 15 is a package for mathematical programming in Julia that speciﬁes problems with algebraic constraints. The key contributions of this paper include: An extensible, open-source software for modeling GICs in power systems. The ﬁrst time-extended model of GIC that includes detri- mental effects on transformers and that is appropriate for use in a mitigation optimization setting. A detailed discussion on modeling requirements for GIC calculations. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: A review of the PMsGMD package and background of key prob- lem formulations are provided in Section II; it gives context to this work and explains design goals. Section III presents the implemented steady-state formulations, and Section IV 1https: github.com lanl-ansi PowerModelsGMD.jlarXiv:2101.05042v2 eess.SY 7 Apr 2021 2 describes the speciﬁcations of the time-extended GIC mitiga- tion problem. Section V and VI validates the implementations and provides a practical example of how this framework can be used both in planning and operations environments. Section VII ﬁnishes with a few concluding remarks. II. P ROBLEM FORMULATIONS A. Context of PMsGMD The Julia programming language 13 is a high-level, high- performance, ﬂexible dynamic language, which is appropriate for technical computing, with performance comparable to traditional statically-typed languages. Julia has many free and open-source packages available to provide speciﬁc toolkits and capabilities for diverse applications. PMs 14 is a package for power system simulation: it provides a ﬂexible platform for implementing and solving a wide range of steady-state network optimization and analysis problems; among others, it includes implementations of power ﬂow (abbr. PF), optimal power ﬂow (abbr. OPF), and optimal transmission switching (abbr. OTS) problem speciﬁcations. It relies on JuMP 15
__label__energy	The Sensitivity of Power System Expansion Models Bruno U. Schyskaa,, Alexander Kiesb, Markus Schlottb, Lueder von Bremena,1, Wided Medjroubia aDLR Institute of Networked Energy Systems, Oldenburg, Germany bFrankfurt Institute of Advanced Studies, Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany cForWind Center for Wind Energy Research, Carl-von-Ossietzky-University, Oldenburg, Germany Abstract Power system expansion models are a widely used tool for planning power systems, especially considering the integration of large shares of renewable resources. The backbone of these models is an optimization problem, which depends on a number of economic and technical parameters. Although these parameters contain signi cant uncertainties, the sensitivity of power system models to these uncertainties is barely investigated. In this work, we introduce a novel method to quantify the sensitivity of power system models to di erent model parameters based on measuring the additional cost arising from misallocating generation capacities. The value of this method is proven by three prominent test cases: the de nition of capital cost, di erent weather periods and di erent spatial and temporal resolutions. We nd that the model is most sensitive to the temporal resolution. Fur- thermore, we explain why the spatial resolution is of minor importance and why the underlying weather data should be chosen carefully. Keywords: Energy system analysis, Stochastic optimization, System planning uncertainty, Renewable energy, Modeling to generate alternatives 1. Introduction In order to address the issue of climate change and sustainability, energy systems around the world are undergoing major transitions. In this context, large shares of weather-dependent power sources, such as solar photovoltaics (PV) and wind power, need to be integrated into existing systems. This is a challenging task, solutions proposed by literature are manifold 1, 2 . They Preprint submitted to July 21, 2020arXiv:2007.09956v1 physics.soc-ph 20 Jul 2020 include the large-scale integration of storage technologies 3, 4 , the extension of the transmission grid 5, 6 , the overinstallation of renewable capacities 7 or optimising the mix of di erent renewable generation sources, e.g. solar and hydro power 8 , wind power and solar PV 9 or wind power and concentrated solar power 10 . Options to modify the demand side have for instance been investigated by Palensky and Dietrich 11 and Zerrahn and Schill 12 . Kies et al. 13 found that demand-side management can balance generation-side uctuations for a renewable share of up to 65 in Europe. Hirth and M uller 14 and Chat- topadhyay et al. 15 proposed to deploy system-friendly wind turbines or PV modules, respectively, that are designed to resemble load patterns. Fur- thermore, vehicle-to-grid technologies have been proven to be useful for the system integration of renewables 16 . It is common understanding that the coupling of the sectors electricity, heat and transportation might reduce costs and hence support the power system transition. The synergies between these sectors have been investigated by Brown et al. 17 . Many of these solutions are the result of studies using so-called power sys- tem expansion models (PSEM). Although most PSEM aim at nding optimal solutions for power system design, they may signi cantly vary in structure and in scope. For a list of models see for instance the Open Energy Platform (https: openenergy-platform.org factsheets models ). Over the last years, PSEM have become progressively more complex. They include more and more aspects of power system in an increasing level of detail. Running these models is an increasingly challenging and expen- sive task. Consequently, a number of complexity reduction techniques has been proposed in the literature 18 . They range from simple averaging and clustering techniques to reduce the temporal and spatial resolution to more complex methods to be able to model storage units with inconsistent time series. However, without being able to compute a representative reference, their skill with respect to real world examples can hardly be quanti ed. Furthermore, PSEM depend on a number of uncertain parameters. As- sumptions made for costs or the availability of weather-dependent generation sources as well as the reduction of the model resolution to make it tractable introduce uncertainty 19, 20, 21 . This uncertainty clearly e ects the in- terpretation of the simulation results. Recently, Nacken et al. 22 applied a method called modelling to generate alternatives (MGA) to a future Ger- man energy supply and showed that it produces a number of signi cantly di erent energy scenarios. MGA bases on changing the PSEM structure by 2 setting the cost-optimal objective value plus some slack as a new constraint and exploring the resulting solution space 23, 24, 25 . Neumann und Brown 26 used a similar method to explore the near-optimal solution space of a cost-optimised European power system. They observed a high variance in the deployment of individual components near the optimal solution. Based on a global sensitivity analysis , Moret et al. 27 found that the uncertainty of economic parameters has the highest in uence on the results of an en- ergy model. Similarly, Shirizadeh et al. 28 investigated the robustness of a fully renewable power system model of France to uncertainties in future cost of generation technologies. They found that, although the optimal genera- tion mix clearly depends on the respective cost for the di erent technologies, overall system costs are relatively insensitive. For an overview of methods applied in the context of uncertainty in power system modeling see Yue et al. 29 . In addition, power infrastructure is planned decades in advance. During these decades, boundary conditions may considerably change due to climate change and climate variability. The e ect of climate change on renewable power systems is a recent eld of research. Schlott et al. 30 found that it is likely that climate change will increase the share of solar PV in a cost- optimal European power system. According to Weber et al. 31 a climate change induced increase in the seasonal variability of wind speed and a higher likelihood for periods of low wind speeds will lead to signi cantly higher needs for backup energy and storage in large parts of Europe. This
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	The Singlet Triplet Gap of Cyclobutadiene: The CIPSI-Driven CC( P;Q) Study Swati S. Priyadarsini,1Karthik Gururangan,1Jun Shen,1and Piotr Piecuch1, 2,a) 1)Department of Chemistry, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA 2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA (Dated: 28 May 2024) An accurate determination of singlet triplet gaps in biradicals, including cyclobutadiene in the automerization barrier region where one has to balance the substantial nondynamical many-electron correlation effects char- acterizing the singlet ground state with the predominantly dynamical correlations of the lowest-energy triplet, remains a challenge for many quantum chemistry methods. High-level coupled-cluster (CC) approaches, such as the CC method with a full treatment of singly, doubly, and triply excited clusters (CCSDT), are often capable of providing reliable results, but the routine application of such methods is hindered by their high computational costs. We have recently proposed a practical alternative to converging the CCSDT energetics at small fractions of the computational effort, even when electron correlations become stronger and con- nected triply excited clusters are larger and nonperturbative, by merging the CC( P;Q) moment expansions with the selected configuration interaction methodology abbreviated as CIPSI. We demonstrate that one can accurately approximate the highly accurate CCSDT potential surfaces characterizing the lowest singlet and triplet states of cyclobutadiene along the automerization coordinate and the gap between them using tiny fractions of triply excited cluster amplitudes identified with the help of relatively inexpensive CIPSI Hamiltonian diagonalizations. I. INTRODUCTION Biradicals play a key role in chemistry as re- action intermediates in thermal and photochemical pathways1 7as well as functional materials used in molecular magnets,8 10battery electrodes,11and organic photovoltaics.12 15An important quantity characteriz- ing the electronic structure of biradicals, especially in the context of designing molecules for magnetic, elec- trochemical, and photovoltaic applications, is the en- ergy gap ES Tseparating the lowest-lying singlet and triplet states (throughout this work, we define ES Tas ES ET, where ESandETare the electronic energies of the relevant singlet and triplet states, i.e., when the sin- glet is lower than the triplet, ES T 0). Accurate com- putational determination of the ES Tvalues in biradi- cals remains, however, a difficult task because it requires balancing the strong nondynamical many-electron corre- lation effects characterizing the low-spin singlet states with the predominantly dynamical correlations associ- ated with their high-spin triplet counterparts.16 32 This challenge is exemplified by the cyclobutadi- ene molecule, which is the focus of the present study and which has fascinated experimental and theoretical chemists for decades with questions surrounding its low- lying electronic states, anti-aromaticity, and reactivity in cycloaddition and isomerization reactions. In the D4h- symmetric square structure corresponding to the barrier along the automerization coordinate or the minimum on a)Corresponding author; e-mail: piecuch chemistry.msu.edu.the lowest triplet potential, cyclobutadiene is a biradi- cal with its four valence πorbitals arranged in a net- work consisting of the nondegenerate a2uorbital, the doubly degenerate egshell, and the nondegenerate b1uor- bital. The distribution of two of the four valence electrons among the pair of degenerate frontier egorbitals gives rise to three singlet states of the B1g(D4h),A1g(D4h), and B2g(D4h) symmetries and a A2g(D4h)-symmetric triplet state, all involving the doubly occupied a2uand unoc- cupied b1uorbitals and the partially occupied egshell in their zeroth-order description.30,33 39As shown in the early ab initio calculations,33,34,40 42and as confirmed in many subsequent theoretical studies, such as those re- ported in Refs. 20, 26 28, 30 32, 35 39, the lowest singlet of the B1g(D4h) symmetry, which has a substantial mul- ticonfigurational character, is the ground state, whereas the predominantly single-reference A2g(D4h)-symmetric triplet, in violation of Hund s rule, is the first excited state. To be more specific, if one orients cyclobutadi- ene such that the two C2axes bisect the carbon carbon bonds, which is a convention adopted in the present study, the1B1g(D4h) ground state of the square struc- ture is dominated by two closed-shell determinants in which one of the two degenerate egorbitals is occupied by two electrons and the other one is empty (see, e.g., Refs. 35, 37, 39, and 42). This should be contrasted with the lowest-energy3A2g(D4h) state, which is charac- terized by single occupancy of each of the egorbitals. While the lowest3A2g(D4h) state is stable in the square geometry, which is a minimum on the corresponding triplet surface, the1B1g(D4h) ground state is unstable with respect to the rectangular distortion of the carbon carbon bonds that lifts the degeneracy of the valence egarXiv:2405.15864v1 physics.chem-ph 24 May 2024 2 orbitals and lowers its total electronic energy due to the pseudo-Jahn Teller effect. This results in the formation of the D2h-symmetric rectangular species characterized by the closed-shell, predominantly single-determinantal, 1Ag(D2h) ground state, which represents a minimum on the lowest-energy singlet potential.30,31,35 37,39,42The distortion of the multiconfigurational1B1g(D4h) state into the1Ag(D2h) state coincides with the automeriza- tion coordinate in cyclobutadiene, which describes the conversion of the rectangular, D2h-symmetric, closed- shell reactant (R) into the equivalent product conformer by passing through the square, D4h-symmetric, biradical transition state (TS). Obtaining an accurate description of the potential energy curves (PECs) characterizing the lowest singlet 1Ag(D2h) and triplet 3B1g(D2h) states of cyclobutadiene along its D2h-symmetric automerization coordinate, and the gap between them, particularly in the neighborhood of the square biradical species, remains a significant challenge for modern ab initio techniques as it requires a high-level treatment of many-electron corre- lation effects in order to accurately capture and balance the strong nondynamical correlations associated with the multiconfigurational singlet state with the largely dy- namical correlations dominating the triplet state. A traditional way of addressing this and similar chal- lenges is to use multireference approaches,43 50but in this work we focus on the single-reference coupled-cluster (CC) methodology,51 57which employs the exponential wave function ansatz58,59 Ψ eT Φ , (1) where Φ is the N-electron reference determinant that serves as a Fermi vacuum and T PN n 1Tnis the cluster operator, with Tndesignating the n-body component of Tresponsible for generating connected n-particle n-hole (np-nh) excitations out of Φ . It is well established that as long as the number of strongly correlated
__label__energy	1 Short-term Electric Load Forecasting Using TensorFlow and Deep Auto-Encoders Xin Shi ,Student Member, IEEE Abstract This paper conducts research on the short-term electric load forecast method under the background of big data. It builds a new electric load forecast model based on Deep Auto-Encoder Networks (DAENs), which takes into account multidimensional load-related data sets including historical load value, temperature, day type, etc. A new distributed short- term load forecast method based on TensorFlow and DAENs is therefore proposed, with an algorithm ﬂowchart designed. This method overcomes the shortcomings of traditional neural network methods, such as over-ﬁtting, slow convergence and local optimum, etc. Case study results show that the proposed method has obvious advantages in prediction accuracy, stability, and expansibility compared with those based on traditional neural networks. Thus, this model can better meet the demands of short- term electric load forecasting under big data scenario. Index Terms big data, short-term electric load forecast, Ten- sorFlow, Deep Auto-Encoder Networks (DAENs), Back Propa- gation Neural Networks (BPNNs), Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) I. I NTRODUCTION SERVING as the basis of the planning and dispatching of power systems, short-term electric load forecasting is the premise of achieving automatic generation control and economic dispatching. Its accuracy has an impact on the safety, stability, and economy of the normal operation of the power systems. An accurate load forecast method can reduce operating costs, keep power markets efﬁcient, and provide a better understanding of the dynamics of the monitored systems 1 2 . Therefore, it is of great importance to study short-term load forecast methods. For a long time, electric load forecast methods have been researched by scholars at home and abroad, which in general fall into two categories, traditional methods and artiﬁcial intelligence methods. The former mainly include time series 3 4 , regression 5 and grey system theory 6 7 , etc. They have simple models and fast calculation speed, but cannot simulate electric load under complicated situations, leading to an unsatisfying prediction accuracy. The latter mainly refer to some machine learning methods, including back propaga- tion neural networks (BPNNs) 8 9 , support vector machine (SVM) 10 11 , extreme learning machine (ELM) 12 13 , etc. The prediction accuracy has been improved to some extent by using those intelligent methods. However, those intelligent methods have limited learning ability and are not capable of transforming and processing large data samples, which can Department of Electrical Engineering, Center for Big Data and Ar- tiﬁcial Intelligence, State Energy Smart Grid Research and Development Center, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 200240, China.(e-mail: dugushixin sjtu.edu.cn.)easily lead to over-ﬁtting, slow convergence, local optimum, and many other problems. As a result, the prediction accuracy has certain limitations, which cannot meet the demands and challenges of big data analysis. With the emergence of big data in the power sector, load- related data dimensions continue to increase, which brings new challenges to the electric load forecast work. We must ﬁnd a new method to effectively achieve the goal of electric load forecasting and analysis under this scenario. In 2006, Geoffrey Hinton from Canada proposed the method of deep learning 14 15 , which opened a new era of deep learning in academic and industrial ﬁelds. Deep Auto-Encoder Networks (DAENs), a deep learning method, conducts feature transfor- mation on training samples, layer by layer, to build a machine learning model with multiple hidden layers, projecting the feature representation in the original scenario into a new one, which makes it easier to predict, and ultimately improves pre- diction accuracy. Compared to methods that construct features by artiﬁcial rules, the DAENs method is better at depicting the rich inner information of data, effectively meeting the demands of big data analysis. It has been the hot spot of international machine learning research ﬁeld 16 17 18 , but few attempts have been made to introduce it in the application of electric load forecasting. A. Contributions In this paper, based on multidimensional load-related data such as historical load values, temperature, day types etc., a new distributed short-term load forecast method using Tensor- Flow and DAENs is proposed. In Sect. II we give the mathe- matical background and theoretical foundation. The training processes of DAENs include pre-training and ﬁne-tuning, which are introduced and analyzed in detail. In Sect. III, we ﬁrst introduce TensorFlow. Then we construct load forecast model based on DAENs. Considering the complex structure of DAENs and high real-time demand of load forecasting, we designed a parallel algorithm ﬂowchart using the multi- GPU mode analysis framework of TensorFlow, which greatly enhances the calculation speed. Load-related data is processed using the normalization formula, fuzzy membership function, and weighted one-hot encoding method. The evaluation index of load forecasting is deﬁned at the end. In Sect. IV, with load-related data provided by European Smart Technology Network(EUNITE), the forecast method proposed in this paper is validated and its advantages are highlighted. Furthermore, comparison of this method with the method based on BPNNs and ELM is made. In Sect. V, we report our conclusions.arXiv:1907.08941v1 eess.SP 21 Jul 2019 2 B. Related Works Auto-Encoder networks have been widely explored in the past years. Reference 19 introduces a new method to an- alyze the human immunodeﬁciency virus using a combi- nation of Auto-Encoder networks and genetic algorithms, which outperforms the conventional feedforward neural net- work models and is a much better classiﬁer. Reference 20 extracts and composes robust features by using denoising Auto-Encoders, which shows surprising results. In reference 21 , an algorithm that aids the curation of gene annotations and predicts previously-unidentiﬁed gene functions is designed by using deep Auto-Encoder neural networks. Experiments show that deep Auto-Encoder neural networks achieve better performance than other standard machine learning methods, including the popular truncated singular value decomposition. Reference 22 proposes a novel method for modeling the excitation through an Auto-Encoder, which produces speech of higher perceptual quality compared to conventional pulse- excited speech signals. Reference 23 uses Auto-Encoder neural networks for water demand predictive modeling. In the research done above, Auto-Encoder networks have been
__label__energy	PROCEEDINGS ______ The 5 th International Symposium on Sustainable Development _ ______ ISSD 2014 187 P a g e INVESTIGATION OF A BIOMASS GASIFICATION SYSTEM BASED ON ENERGY AND EXERGY ANALYSIS Abbas Alpaslan Kocer 1 , Yunus Emre Yuksel 2 , Murat Ozturk 3 1 Uluborlu Selahattin Karasoy Vocational School, Suleyman Demirel University, 32260, Isparta Turkey, alpaslankocer sdu.edu.tr 2 Department of Science and Education, Education Faculty, Afyon Kocatepe University, 03200, Afyon, Turkey, yeyuksel aku.edu.tr 3 Department of Mechatronic s Engineering, Faculty of Technology, Suleyman Demirel University, 32260, Isparta Turkey, muratozturk sdu.edu.tr Abstract Biomass gasification procedure is a very complex process and it is influenced by man y physical and chemical factors such as biomass gasification temperature and gasifier type. Thermodynamic assessment methodology based on the energy and exergy analysis can be used to evaluate the system performance and environmental impacts. In this paper , thermodynamic analysis of the biomass gasification system is given for the whole system and its components. The parametric studies reveal the effects of design and operating indicators on the exergy efficiency and exergy destruction rate. The result show s that the gasification temperatures for the biomass gasification system change significantly with the type of the gasifying medium. Keywords: Biomass gasification, energy analysis, exergy analysis, parametric study. brought to you by CORE View metadata, citation and similar papers at core.ac.uk provided by International Burch University ISSD 2014 The 5 th International Symposium on Sustainable Development _ _ _ ____ PROCEE DINGS 188 P a g e 1. Introduct ion Energy is a key indicator for social, cultural and economic development of any country, and also is evaluated as an important aspect for sustainable development. It has been clearly seen that the energy production and consumption rate of a country is proportional to its economic status. By extension, the development of a country can be quantified as a ratio of its energy consumption per capita. Fossil energy sources, such as crude oil and natural gas, have been and refined to serve a dramatic growth in world population especially since the 1970s. Nevertheless, it is usually indicated that fossil energy sources are not sufficient to meet the constantly expanding needs of humanity. Conventional energy sources are non - renewable; they draw on finite sources that will finally dwindle, becoming more expensive or environmentally damaging to retrieve. Actually, at the nowadays consumption rate, conventional energy sources are reaching a natural discharge limitation with ongoing depletion Ozturk et al., 2008 . M oreover, having relied merely on conventional energy sources has exhibited different significant environmental damages. Renewable energy sources are one of the most promising solutions for this energy demand. Alternative energy sources should preferentiall y be more environmentally and economical than conventional fossil energy sources in order to present wide scale applications. On the other hand, global warming, air pollution, acid precipitation, ozone depletion, forest destruction, and emission of radioac tive substances are among the significant environmental problems Ozturk et al., 2009 . Clean energy conversion and production variations with lower environmental concern should be obtained by considering all mentioned issues simultaneously Dincer, 2000 . The usage of alternative energy sources provides a clean way to reduce the emissions of poisonous gases, such as CO, CO 2 , NO x and SO x . As an important example, in Turkey, approximately 25 of greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by usage of renewable e nergy sources. Many developed and developing countries installed intensive search plans in the before 1970s to install renewable energy technologies and change fossil energy sources Ozturk et al., 2011 . The renewable energy technologies are the flat - pl ate solar panel installation for roofs of the residential and commercial building for heating and hot water production applications; photovoltaic (PV) system, wind turbine and ocean system for the electricity production; water splitting for hydrogen output ; and biomass or bio - waste for conversion to gaseous fuel sources via gasification system for heat, steam or electricity generation. Biomass is a large potential renewable energy sources, supplied from plants and animal wastes. It is one of the oldest re newable energy sources and has been used by humankind for daily needs since centuries Toonssen et al., 2008 . To produce energy from biomass, the most preferred method is conventional combustion of biomass. This technique is not only valid in Turkey but a lso throughout the World. According to method which produces energy from biomass, biomass techniques are classified as classic and modern biomass. Classic biomass is the most popular method until now and this procedure consists of burning biomass such as w ood, plant residues, and animal dung. Modern biomass technologies are new relative to classic ones and modern biomass is still on the development stages. In modern biomass technique, biomass is converted into solid, liquid or gas fuels by means of bio - chem ical and thermo - chemical processes. Investigations of the thermodynamic system are complex processes and involve consideration of the system components and their characteristic, chemical reaction and thermodynamic loss. Energy conversion technologies suc h as biomass gasification system should be investigated for their performance by using the first and second laws of thermodynamic (or energy and and exergy analysis). The use of exergy analysis should allow the determination of the processes PROCEEDINGS ______ The 5 th International Symposium on Sustainable Development _ ______ ISSD 2014 189 P a g e having the gre atest irreversibilities, as well as the causes and locations of the irreversibilities. Exergy analysis also would allow exergy efficiencies to be determined for whole system and its components. These important indicators should be used in design or retrofi t of the process for increasing system performance. In this paper, energy and exergy analysis of the biomass gasification system and energy and exergy efficiencies of the system components are investigated for better system design. The simulations have bee n performed using Engineering Equation Solver (EES) software program. The following is a general outline of the present study; To investigate the
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	1 Atomic Scheduling of Appliance Energy Consumption in Residential Smart Grid Kyeong Soo Kim, Member, IEEE , Sanghyuk Lee, Tiew On Ting, Member, IEEE , and Xin-She Yang Abstract The current formulation of the optimal scheduling of appliance energy consumption uses as optimization variables the vectors of appliances scheduled energy consumption over equally-divided time slots of a day, which does not take into account the atomicity of appliances operations (i.e., the un- splittable nature of appliances operations and resulting energy consumption). In this paper, we provide a new formulation of atomic scheduling of energy consumption based on the optimal routing framework; the ﬂow conﬁgurations of users over multiple paths between the common source and destination nodes of a ring network are used as optimization variables, which indicate the starting times of scheduled energy consumption, and optimal scheduling problems are now formulated in terms of the user ﬂow conﬁgurations. Because the atomic optimal scheduling results in aBoolean-convex problem for a convex objective function, we propose a successive convex relaxation technique for efﬁcient calculation of an approximate solution, where we iteratively drop fractional-valued elements and apply convex relaxation to the resulting problem until we ﬁnd a feasible suboptimal solution. Numerical results for the cost and peak-to-average ratio minimization problems demonstrate that the successive convex relaxation technique can provide solutions close to, often identical to, global optimal solutions. Index Terms Atomic scheduling, convex relaxation, demand- side management, energy consumption scheduling, optimal rout- ing, smart grid. I. I NTRODUCTION WE study the problem of scheduling electrical appliance energy consumption in residential smart grid. Our goal in revisiting this well-known problem of energy consumption scheduling (e.g., 1 9 ) is to establish a new formulation of optimal scheduling problems where we take into account theatomicity of operations by household appliances, and to provide efﬁcient solution techniques for the formulated optimal scheduling problems. By atomicity, we mean the unsplittable nature of appliances operations and resulting energy consumption. Note that the scheduling of electrical appliance energy consumption is a key to the autonomous demand-side manage- ment (DSM) for residential smart grid in optimizing energy production and consumption; the scheduling is based on smart meters installed at users premises and the two-way digital communications between a utility company and users through the smart meters, and the typical goals of DSM includes K. S. Kim, S. Lee, and T. O. Ting are with the Depart- ment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Xi an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou 215123, Jiangsu Province, P. R. China (e-mail: fKyeongsoo.Kim,Sanghyuk.Lee,Toting g xjtlu.edu.cn). Xin-She Yang is with the School of Science and Technology, Middlesex University, London NW4 4BT, United Kingdom (e-mail: x.yang mdx.ac.uk).consumption reducing and shifting, which lead into lower peak-to average ratio (PAR) and energy cost 10 . Since the energy consumption scheduling was formulated as an optimization problem using energy consumption schedul- ing vectors as optimization variables representing appliances scheduled hourly energy consumption over a day 1 , there have been published a number of papers on the subjects of appliance energy consumption scheduling and related billing pricing mechanisms based on this formulation. For instance, the issue of optimality and fairness in autonomous DSM is studied in relation with billing mechanisms in 4 , while the same issue is studied but in the context of user privacy in 6 . The cost and PAR minimization problems, which are separately formulated in 1 , are integrated into a PAR-constrained cost minimization problem in 7 . This integration is also further extended to take into account con- sumers preference on operation delay and power gap using multiple objective functions. In 9 , instead of typical concave n-person games, Rubinstein-Stahl bargaining game model is used to capture the interaction between the supplier and the consumers through a retail price vector in lowering PAR to a certain desired value. In most existing works on the energy consumption schedul- ing for autonomous DSM in smart grid, however, no serious attention has been given to the microstructure of scheduled energy consumption over time slots; their major focus is on the optimal value of an objective function that is only based on the aggregate load from the scheduled energy consumption. Few exceptions in this regard include the works on the integration of consumers preference 7 and the use of load consumption curves in the objective function 2 . Below are some scenarios illustrating the importance of the atomicity of appliance operations. When a user washes clothes, the washing machine should be continuously on for a certain period depending on the amount of laundry, e.g., for two hours, during which the operation of the clothes washer cannot be interrupted and the supplied power cannot be reduced arbitrarily. As the washing task can be activated anytime within a speciﬁed period, e.g., from 9 AM to 3 PM when the user is out to work, the major goal of autonomous DSM is to determine the optimal two-hour time slot to complete the task when the energy price is lowest during the speciﬁed period. For heavier-duty tasks like charging the battery of a plug- in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV), again the continuity of the operation is important, e.g., four hours of uninterrupt- ible charging to maintain the lifetime of PHEV s battery.arXiv:1506.00198v3 cs.NI 25 Sep 2019 2 Appliances such as a rice cooker can signiﬁcantly con- tribute to the overall cost saving if handled properly. Some rice cookers function may take more than one hour for completion, e.g., the slow cooking function for delicate soup, whereby the cooking process can be scheduled within any time-shot during the day. Considering that most of the operations subject to DSM are either atomic as such (e.g., laundry cleaning by a clothes washer) or consist of atomic suboperations (e.g., house heating by a heater operating in the morning and in the evening) 8 , therefore, we provide a new formulation of the optimization problem for atomic scheduling of appliance energy consump- tion and efﬁcient solution techniques for resulting problems in this paper. Atomic scheduling has been mostly discussed in
__label__energy	Improving Low-Fidelity Models of Li-ion Batteries via Hybrid Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics Samuel Filgueira da Silva, Mehmet Fatih Ozkan, Faissal El Idrissi, Prashanth Ramesh and Marcello Canova Abstract Accurate modeling of lithium ion (li-ion) bat- teries is essential for enhancing the safety, and efficiency of electric vehicles and renewable energy systems. This paper presents a data-inspired approach for improving the fidelity of reduced-order li-ion battery models. The proposed method combines a Genetic Algorithm with Sequentially Thresholded Ridge Regression (GA-STRidge) to identify and compensate for discrepancies between a low-fidelity model (LFM) and data generated either from testing or a high-fidelity model (HFM). The hybrid model, combining physics-based and data-driven methods, is tested across different driving cycles to demonstrate the ability to significantly reduce the voltage prediction error compared to the baseline LFM, while preserving computational efficiency. The model robustness is also evaluated under various operating conditions, showing low prediction errors and high Pearson correlation coefficients for terminal voltage in unseen environments. I. INTRODUCTION Accurate models of li-ion battery (LiB) cells play an essential role in ensuring effective monitoring, diagnostics, and control of battery systems, which are vital to applications such as portable electronic devices, stationary energy storage, and electrified vehicle 1 , 2 . Among various method, physics-based (electrochemical) models are extensively used for their ability to capture the complex electrochemical pro- cesses that govern the internal dynamics of LiBs 3 . These models rely on complex nonlinear and partial differential equations (PDEs) to predict physical phenomena that lead to the cell terminal voltage, including ion and charge transport, equilibrium potentials and interfacial reaction kinetics. While highly accurate, the high computational cost associated with solving the constitutive equations makes real-time control and large-scale simulation challenging 4 . This challenge motivates the development of reduced- order models, which offer faster computation time at the expense of accuracy, especially when capturing the intricate dynamics of battery physics at high C-rates 5 . To address this challenge, studies on data-driven modeling (DDM) tech- niques are being increasingly explored as a potential solution to complement traditional physics-based and reduced-order models 6 . Moreover, methods based on machine learning have been extensively leveraged to predict different battery indicators such as state of charge (SOC) 7 , 8 , 9 , state of health (SOH) 10 , 11 , and remaining useful life (RUL) 12 , 13 . 1Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Center for Automotive Research, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Emails: filgueiradasilva.1 osu.edu, ozkan.25 osu.edu, canova.1 osu.eduHowever, ensuring both robustness and interpretability in DDM for predicting battery dynamics remains a significant challenge, as these models often struggle to generalize across varying operating conditions and lack transparency on their mathematical structure, making it difficult to understand the rationale behind their decision-making process. In this con- text, regression techniques such as Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems (SINDy) 14 and Symbolic Regression 15 , 16 have emerged as promising approaches for generating interpretable models by identifying governing equations directly from data. For example, the authors in 17 employed SINDy with control (SINDYc) to predict the volt- age and SOC dynamics of Lithium-ion batteries (LiBs). In their work, the training data set was generated using a Doyle- Fuller-Newman (DFN) electrochemical model. While the approach captures the highly nonlinear dynamics that govern the output voltage behavior, the main shortcoming lies in the reliance on manual processes for selecting the appropriate library terms and sparsification parameters. To address the limitations of SINDYc, recent research has introduced a sequentially thresholded ridge regression (STRidge) method that tunes the sparsification parameters 18 . However, this approach still relies on predefined library functions to con- struct the sparse data-driven model. If a large number of irrelevant or redundant functions are included in the library, this approach may fail to predict the output accurately. To overcome the aforementioned challenges, this study proposes a bi-level data-driven method integrating meta- heuristic optimization with sparse regression. The proposed approach jointly optimizes the process of selecting both library terms and sparsification parameters to develop a more generalizable and parsimonious model. The starting point of this study is a low-fidelity model (LFM) of a LiB cell that is obtained via model order reduction from an electrochemical model 19 . The pre- diction accuracy is improved by creating a data-driven model of the error dynamics via a Genetic Algorithm (GA)- guided STRidge (GA-STRidge) approach, which leverages data generated from a high-fidelity model (HFM) 20 . By incorporating the proposed data-driven system identification, this study shows how the predictive accuracy of an LFM can be significantly improved while preserving computational efficiency and retaining knowledge of the effects that states and inputs of the LFM carry on the error dynamics. The paper is structured as follows. Section II summarizes the equations of the LFM, while Section III describes the hy- brid identification procedure. Finally, Section IV summarizes the training, validation and verification methodology.arXiv:2411.12935v1 eess.SY 20 Nov 2024 II. O VERVIEW OF LIB C ELLMODEL EQUATIONS A. Overview of Li-ion Battery Models The starting point for this study is a low-fidelity model of a li-ion cell, developed originally in 19 . This model, known as the electrochemical equivalent circuit model (E- ECM), is obtained via model order reduction, linearization and approximation of the governing equations of an elec- trochemical model to achieve high computational efficiency while preserving the characteristic dynamics originating from the lithium transport in the positive and negative electrodes. This section summarizes the relevant equations of the LFM, including the approximations used. The terminal volt- ageVLFM is defined as follows: VLFM(t) Up(cs,p,t) Un(cs,n,t) (ηp(cs,p,t) ηn(cs,n,t)) φohm(t) I(t)Rc(1) The kinetic overpotential ηiand the exchange current density i0iare expressed as: ηi(t) RT0( JiI(t)) Fi0,i(2) i0i(t) exp 1 Tre f 1 T(t) Eioi R Fki q cs,i(cs,max ,i cs,i)ce,i(3) where i p,n(positive or negative electrode), Eio,iis the activation energy, cmax ,irefers to the maximum surface concentration, ce,idenotes the electrolyte concentration, and Tre fis the reference temperature. A second-order Pad e approximation is employed to compute the lithium surface concentration cs,ifor the
__label__nonenergy	We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__energy	Published as a workshop paper at Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning , ICLR 2024 ENABLING CLEAN ENERGY RESILIENCE WITH MACHINE LEARNING -EMPOWERED UNDERGROUND HYDROGEN STORAGE Alvaro Carbonero, Shaowen Mao Mohamed Mehana Los Alamos National Laboratory Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA alvaro.carbonero, shaowen.mao, mzm lanl.gov ABSTRACT To address the urgent challenge of climate change, there is a critical need to tran- sition away from fossil fuels towards sustainable energy systems, with renewable energy sources playing a pivotal role. However, the inherent variability of renew- able energy, without effective storage solutions, often leads to imbalances between energy supply and demand. Underground Hydrogen Storage (UHS) emerges as a promising long-term storage solution to bridge this gap, yet its widespread imple- mentation is impeded by the high computational costs associated with high fidelity UHS simulations. This paper introduces UHS from a data-driven perspective and outlines a roadmap for integrating machine learning into UHS, thereby facilitating the large-scale deployment of UHS. 1 I NTRODUCTION Renewable energy, a key player in combating climate change, is gaining increasing global adoption Energy 2020 (2010); United nations (2015). In 2022, renewables contributed 13.1 to the US s primary energy consumption U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) (2022) and 21.5 to its utility-scale electricity generation. Furthermore, by 2024, countries like Spain, Germany, and Ire- land are expected to generate over 40 of their annual electricity from wind and solar photovoltaics U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) (2023). Despite these strides, renewable energy sources face challenges due to unpredictable variations in atmospheric conditions and geographic limitations, leading to fluctuations in energy supply. Underground hydrogen (H 2) storage (UHS) is emerging as a vital technology for mitigating the intermittency of renewable energy sources Zivar et al. (2021); Tarkowski Uliasz-Misiak (2022). When there s a surplus in renewable energy production, excess electricity is converted into H 2and stored in geological formations. During times of high demand or low renewable energy generation, the stored H 2is then retrieved and utilized to meet energy needs. UHS, unlike batteries typically used for short-term storage Raad et al. (2022), is capable of storing significant amounts of energy over longer periods. This capability is crucial for counteracting seasonal energy fluctuations and maintaining a consistent energy supply year-round. UHS shares similarities with other subsurface applications such as hydrocarbon development Christie Blunt (2001) and geological carbon sequestration (GCS) Moridis et al. (2023); Wen et al. (2023). However, it is distinguished by more complex operational conditions. In hydrocarbon development, the process is typically focused on extraction, while GCS is solely about injection. In contrast, UHS operates on a cyclic basis, incorporating both injection and extraction stages. This complexity in operational conditions introduces greater uncertainty in H 2storage performance. Tra- ditionally, the prediction of UHS performance relies on high-fidelity physics-based reservoir simu- lations Lysyy et al. (2021); Feldmann et al. (2016); Hogeweg et al. (2022); Okoroafor et al. (2023). These simulations accurately predict the H 2movement and pressure changes in geological forma- tions during UHS operations. However, they are extremely computationally intensive, thus delaying the pace of large-scale UHS deployment. To accelerate UHS prediction, turning to surrogate mod- eling via machine learning (ML) offers a promising strategy. 1arXiv:2404.03222v1 cs.LG 4 Apr 2024 Published as a workshop paper at Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning , ICLR 2024 Figure 1: Temporal evolution of the spatial distribution of H 2saturation and reservoir pressure in a 2D UHS simulation. H 2is injected and withdrawn from a central well in a depleted gas reservoir over ten annual cycles comprising a 6-month injection stage followed by a 6-month withdrawal stage. The initial two subfigures (top row) depict the heterogeneous porosity and permeability of the geological formation. Subsequent figures show the H 2saturation and pressure distributions at various time points during UHS operations. Early of a stage refers to two months after its onset, and end of a stage to six months. Porosity is dimensionless; permeability is in millidarcys ( 10 15m2); H2saturation is dimensionless; pressure is in bars ( 105Pa). Currently, there is a knowledge gap in the literature when it comes to developing ML surrogate models for UHS with only two articles on the subject up to our knowledge Mao et al. (2024); Chen et al. (2024). This gap is attributed not only to the fact that UHS is an emerging field but also to the inherent complexity of UHS operational conditions. It is important to note that the knowledge and techniques used in surrogate modeling for GCS do not directly apply to UHS due to its distinct and intricate operational dynamics. In this study, we outline the unique challenges of applying ML to UHS and propose ideas for developing accurate and efficient UHS ML models, supporting risk assessment and storage optimization of future UHS operations. 2 D ATA GENERATION UHS simulations are conducted by solving partial differential equations (PDEs) the details of which can be found in Appendix A. While data for these simulations can be generated using reservoir sim- ulators with specific input configurations, there is a hope that future work will make such datasets publicly available. The computational cost of these simulations increases significantly with refined grids or an increased number of components in the system. For our preliminary studies, we uti- lized tNavigatorDynamics (2023) to perform 1000 2D UHS simulations in depleted gas reservoirs, varying porosity and permeability heterogeneity. Each simulation includes ten annual cycles of six- month H 2injection followed by six months of withdrawal. These simulations were parallelized across four 64-core CPU servers, taking approximately five days to complete. An example is de- picted in Figure 1. See Appendix B.1 for more details on the data produced, and Figure 4 for a simulation conducted in a different type of geological formation. It should be noted that data gen- eration of more realistic systems, such as ones that are not 2D, that will require significantly more computing power. 2 Published as a workshop paper at Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning , ICLR 2024 3 R OADMAP TOWARDS ML FOR UHS We
__label__energy	Carbon Monitor , a near -real-time daily dataset of global CO2 emission from fossil fuel and cement production Zhu Liu1 , Philippe Ciais2 , Zhu Deng1 , Steven J. Davis3 , Bo Zheng2, Yilong Wang4, Duo Cui1, Biqing Zhu1, Xinyu Dou1, Piyu Ke1, Taochun Sun1, Rui Guo1, Olivier Boucher5, François -Marie Bréon2, Chenxi Lu1, Runtao Guo6, Eulalie Boucher7, Frederic Chevallier2 1 Department of Earth System Science, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China. 2 Laboratoire des Sciences du Climate et de l Environnement LSCE, Orme de Merisiers 91191 Gif -sur-Yvette, France 3 Department of Earth System Science, University of California, Irvine, 3232 Croul Hall, Irvine, CA 92697 -3100, USA 4 Key Laboratory of Land Surface Pattern and Simulation, Institute of Geographical Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China 5 Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 5 Institute Pierre -Simon Laplace, Sorbonne Université CNRS, Paris, France 6 School of Mathematical School, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 7 Université Paris -Dauphine, PSL, Paris, France Corresponding authors: zhuliu tsinghua.edu.cn , philippe.ciais lsce.ipsl.fr , sjdavis uci.edu Authors contribute equally Abstract We constructe d a near-real-time daily CO 2 emission dataset, namely the Carbon Monitor, to monitor the variations of CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion and cement production since January 1st 2019 at national level with near -global coverage on a daily basis , with the potential to be frequently updated. Daily CO 2 emissions are estimated from a diverse range of activity data, including: hourly to daily electrical power generation data of 29 countries, monthly production data and production indices of industry processes of 62 countries regions, daily mobility data and mobility indices of road transportation of 416 cities worldwide. Individual flight location data and monthly data were utilised for aviation and maritime transportation sectors estimates. In additi on, monthly fuel consumption data that corrected for daily air temperature of 206 countries were used for estimating the emissions from commercial and residential buildings. This Carbon Monitor dataset manifests the dynamic nature of CO 2 emissions through daily, weekly and seasonal variations as influenced by workdays and holidays, as well as the unfolding impact s of the COVID -19 pandemic. The Carbon Monitor near -real-time CO 2 emission dataset shows a 7.8 decline of CO 2 emission globally from Jan 1st to Ap r 30th in 2020 when compared with the same period in 2019, and detects a re -growth of CO 2 emissions by late April which are mainly attributed to the recovery of economy activities in China and partial easing of lockdowns in other countries. Further, t his daily updated CO 2 emission dataset could offer a range of opportunities for related scientific research and policy making . Background Summary The main cause of global climate change is the excessive anthropogenic emission of CO 2 to the atmosphere from geological carbon reservoirs, from the combustion of fossil fuel and cement production. Dynamic information on fossil fuel-related CO 2 emissions is critical for understanding the impacts on climate due to different human activities, and their variability, on the forcing of climate change. Further, the combustion processes of fossil fuel also emit short -lived pollutants such as SO 2, NO 2 and CO . Therefore, such information would also allow a more accurate quantification and better unde rstanding of air quality changes1,2. Estimates of CO 2 emissions fr om fossil fuel combustion and cement production2-8 are based on both activity data (e.g., the amount of fuel burnt or energy produced) and emission factors (See Methods)9. The sourc es of these data are mainly national energy statistics, although a number of organizations such as CDIAC, BP, EDGAR, IEA and GCP also produce and compile estimates for different groups of countries or for all countries1,10-12. The reported fossil fuel-related CO 2 emissions are usually on an annual basis while lagging the very year s emissions by at least one year. The uncertainty associated with CO 2 emissions from burning fossil fuel and producing cement is small when considering large emitters or the global totals, smaller than that of co -emitted combustion -related pollutants for which uncertain technological factors influence the ratio of emitted amounts to fossil fuel burn t 13-15. The uncertainty of global carbon emissions from fossil fuel burning and cement production varie s between 6 and 10 5,7,16,17 ( 2σ). The uncertainty is attributed to both the activity data and the emission factors. For the activity data, the amount of fuel burnt is recorded by energy production and consumption statistics, hence the uncertainties are introduced by errors and inconsistencies in the reported figures from different sources . For the emission factors, the different fuel types, quality and combustion efficienc y together contribute to the overall uncertainty . For example, coal used in China is of variable quality and so is its emission factors , both before (raw coal) and after cleaning (cleaned coal) varies significantly, which was found to cause a 15 uncertainty range for CO 2 emissions. On the other hand , there is very limited temporal change of emission factors . For example, the annual difference of emission factors for coal consumption was within 2 globally18 while the variation of emission factors for oil and gas was found to be much smaller. Given the fact that the uncertainty of CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel burning and cement production is in general under 10 10,19,20 , and the annual difference of emission factors is less than 2 18, the CO 2 emission thus c an be estimated directly by estimating the absolute amount and the relative change of activity through time. This method has been widely used for scientific products that update recent changes of CO 2 emissions estimates1,21,22 23, understanding that official and comprehensive CO 2 national inventories reported by countries to the UNFCCC become available with a lag of two years for Annex -I countries and several years for non -Annex -I ones24. As such, a h igher spatial, temporal and sectoral re solution
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents statistical modeling approaches for epidemiological studies and public health research.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__energy	arXiv:2101.07491v2 cs.LO 10 Mar 2022AUTOMATED VERIFICATION AND SYNTHESIS OF STOCHASTIC HYBRID SYSTEMS: A SURVEY ABOLFAZL LAVAEI1, SADEGH SOUDJANI2, ALESSANDRO ABATE3, AND MAJID ZAMANI4,5 Abstract. Stochastic hybrid systems have received signiﬁcant attent ions as a relevant modelling framework describing many systems, from engineering to the life scien ces: they enable the study of numerous applica- tions, including transportation networks, biological sys tems and chemical reaction networks, smart energy and power grids, and beyond. Automated veriﬁcation and policy s ynthesis for stochastic hybrid systems can be inherently challenging: this is due to the heterogeneity of their dynamics (presence of continuous and discrete components), the presence of uncertainty, and in some appli cations the large dimension of state and input sets. Over the past few years, a few hundred articles have inv estigated these models, and developed diverse and powerful approaches to mitigate diﬃculties encountere d in the analysis and synthesis of such complex stochastic systems. In this survey, we overview the most rec ent results in the literature and discuss diﬀerent approaches, including (in)ﬁnite abstractions ,veriﬁcation and synthesis for temporal logic speciﬁcation s,sto- chastic similarity relations ,(control) barrier certiﬁcates ,compositional techniques , and a selection of results oncontinuous-time stochastic systems ; we ﬁnally survey recently developed software tools that implement the discussed approaches. Throughout the manuscript we discus s a few open topics to be considered as potential future research directions: we hope that this survey will gu ide younger researchers through a comprehensive understanding of the various challenges, tools, and soluti ons in this enticing and rich scientiﬁc area. 1.Introduction Stochastic hybrid systems (SHS) concern complex dynamical mode ls combining both digital-computation ele- ments and physical components, tightly interacting with each othe r in feedback interconnections. SHS models thus comprise discrete dynamics modelling computational componen ts including hardware and software, and continuous dynamics that model the physical system. Due to their broad real-world applications, such as (air) traﬃc networks, transportation systems, energy networ ks, process engineering, biological systems, and robotic manufacturing, (cf. HWS04, HS05, PH08, SH10b, VGS18 , to name a few), over the past few years SHS have gained remarkable attention in the areas of control theo ry, formal veriﬁcation, applied mathematics, and performance evaluation, among others. SHS applications have become more complex, with more digital components (e.g., for computation and communication) that intera ct with physical (analog) parts: this tight interactioncauses majordiﬃculties in designing and analyzingthese c omplex systems. Accordingly, the ability to handle the interaction between continuous and discrete dynamic s is a prerequisite for providing a rigorous formal framework for formal veriﬁcation and synthesis of SHS. Grown ﬁrst within the area of hybrid systems and of stochastic con trol, SHS have been ﬁrst comprehensively presented and widely discussed in the books in BLE 06 and in CL06 . The historical roots in hybrid systems that underpin SHS research have brought to an inter-disciplinary lo ok at these models, with emphasis split betweenclassicaldynamicalanalysisandcontrolsynthesisonthe onehand, aswellascomputabilityandformal veriﬁcation around rich, high-level speciﬁcations on the other. Au tomated veriﬁcation and policy synthesis for SHSaroundhigh-leveltemporalrequirements, e.g.,thoseexpressedas(linear)temporallogicformulae Pnu77 , is the core emphasis of this survey. Given a temporal property of in terest for a dynamical model, formal veriﬁcation is concerned to soundly check whether the desired spe ciﬁcation is satisﬁed. If the underlying model is stochastic, the goal translates in formally quantifying the probability of satisfying the property of interest. A synthesis problem instead concerns dynamical models w ith the presence of control inputs: the goal is to formally design a controller (also known in diﬀerent areas as policy , or strategy, or scheduler), which is 1 2 ABOLFAZL LAVAEI1, SADEGH SOUDJANI2, ALESSANDRO ABATE3, AND MAJID ZAMANI4,5 by and large a state-feedback architecture, to enforce the pro perty of interest. This procedure is also called correct-by-construction control design , since every step in the controller synthesis procedure comes with a formal guarantee. In a stochastic setting, the key objective is t o synthesize a controller that optimizes (e.g., maximizes) the probability of satisfying the given speciﬁcation. As a r esult of their intrinsic soundness, formal methods approaches do not require any costly, exhaustive, and p ossibly unsuccessful post-facto validation, which is needed in many safety-critical, real-world applications. The intrinsic complexity of SHS models, resulting from the aforement ioned interaction of discrete and contin- uous components, as well as from the presence of uncertainty th at is modelled via probability terms, makes it in general diﬃcult - if at all possible - to obtain analytical results in th eir formal veriﬁcation or for control synthesis tasks. Hence, veriﬁcation and policy synthesis for SHS a re generally addressed by techniques that either leverage model (ﬁnite) approximations, or the use of suﬃcie nt conditions for analysis. Accordingly, we categorize these two classes of approaches as (i) discretization- based and (ii) discretization-free techniques. 1.1.Discretization-based Techniques. In the analysis of SHS, it is often the case that quantities of in- terest, such as value functions, or the characterization of optim al policies, are in general not available in a closed (explicit, analytical) form. Therefore, a suitable approach f or analyzing SHS is to approximate given ( concrete ) SHS models by simpler ones endowed with ﬁnite state s paces, also known as ﬁnite abstrac- tions .1Finite abstractions of SHS are often in the form of Markov decision p rocesses (MDP), where each discrete state corresponds to a set of continuous states of the concrete SHS model (similarly for inputs). In practice, such ﬁnite abstractions can be generated by partitionin g state input sets of the concrete models given some discretization parameters. If the underlying SHS is auto nomous, i.e.,without control input, the ﬁnite MDP is then reduced to a ﬁnite Markov chain (MC). The discrete dynamics of the ﬁnite abstractions are similarly obtained from those of the concrete continuous models (cf . Fig. 1). Since the obtained abstractions are ﬁnite, many algorithmic machineries from computer science BK08 are directly applicable to perform analysis, model checking, or to synthesize controllers maximizing re wards or enforcing complex properties, including
__label__nonenergy	The study analyzes urban planning strategies for sustainable city development and transportation infrastructure.
__label__energy	Hydrodynamic constraints on the energy e ciency of droplet electricity generators Cui Wang, Jia Zhou, and Antoine Riaud State Key Laboratory of ASIC and System, School of Microelectronics, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China Wanghuai Xu and Zuankai Wang Department of Mechanical Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 999077, Chinay (Dated: December 24, 2020) 1arXiv:2012.12428v1 physics.flu-dyn 23 Dec 2020 Abstract Electric energy generation from falling droplets has seen a hundred-fold rise in e ciency over the past year. However, even these newest devices can only extract a small portion of the droplet energy. In this paper, we theoretically investigate the contributions of hydrodynamic and electric losses in limiting the e ciency of droplet electricity generators (DEG). Noting that the electro- mechanical energy conversion occurs during the recoil that immediately follows droplet impact, we identify three limits on existing droplet electric generators: (i) the impingement velocity is limited in order to maintain the droplet integrity; (ii) much of droplet mechanical energy is squandered in overcoming viscous shear force with the substrate; (iii) insu cient electrical charge of the substrate. Of all these e ects, we found that up to 83 of the total energy available was lost by viscous dissipation during spreading. Minimizing this loss by using cascaded DEG devices to reduce the droplet kinetic energy may increase future devices e ciency beyond 10 . I. INTRODUCTION Droplet electricity generators (DEG) are designed to harvest the kinetic energy of rain droplets to power small wireless sensors. Despite a 100-fold increase in e ciency over the past few years 1 ?, 2 , even state-of-the-art devices only recover 10 of the kinetic energy of water 3 , as opposed to the nearly 100 e ciency achieved by hydroelectric dams. Unlike dams, which extract energy from the mechanical work of water on the hydro- turbines, DEG, and more broadly triboelectric nanogenerators (TENG) harvest energy from charges accumulated on surfaces which are then used to drive an electric current through an external circuit by electrostatic induction 4 . In the case of DEG, the charges are spon- taneously created by water at the surface of polymers 5 8 by contact electri cation 9 , a process which can be intensi ed by applying a voltage across the polymer layer 10 . In the latest studies, a grounded metallic electrode is placed underneath the polymer and is connected to a small metallic strip on the top (see Fig. 1). According to the present un- derstanding, 2, 11 , this sandwiched structure then behaves as a biased capacitor. Upon contact with water, the capacitor is discharged through the load, which releases the electro- http: homepage.fudan.edu.cn ariaud ; antoine riaud fudan.edu.cn yzuanwang cityu.edu.hk 2 FIG. 1. Droplet electric generator with charge circulation 1, 3, 10 . (a)The substrate is initially charged by the impingement of many droplets or other electrical forcing 10 and forms charge pairs on each side of the substrate. (b)Upon contact, the substrate capacitor is discharged through the load and the liquid. (c)During the recoil, trapped charges in the polymer are left behind, so that positive charges move back to the ITO to restore the charge pairs. static energy that was stored previously 2 . Meanwhile, mobile charges accumulate at the water-polymer interface. When the droplet recedes, those charges are detached from the interface and forced to return to the bottom electrode 3 . While this picture predicts the transfer of charges through the DEG with a remarkable accuracy 2 , it does not consider the hydrodynamic side of the picture. Yet, the harvested electrical energy accounts at best for 10 of the initial droplet energy, meaning that, in our present understanding, at least 90 of the droplet energy is unaccounted for. A comprehensive DEG model would consider (i) the electrical process at play, (ii) the hydrodynamics (iii) the electrochemical charge stability and (iv) the electrohydrodynamic coupling. Since only 10 of the DEG energy is electrical, we neglect the electrohydrody- 3 namic coupling and focus mainly on the hydrodynamic process. In this simpli ed view, the DEG hydrodynamics are exactly those of a droplet impacting an inclined plane. Even in this elementary picture, three e ects compete to dominate the droplet dynamics: inertia, surface forces, and viscous dissipation. For a spherical droplet of radius a, density , vis- cosity , surface tension falling at a velocity U0, the ratio of kinetic energy to viscous work is approximately the Reynolds number Re aU0 , while the ratio of kinetic energy to surface energy is connected to the Weber number We U02a . During impacts, the liquid spreads into a thin lamella on the solid where most of the energy conversion occurs 12 . It was noticed quite early that a large fraction of the droplet energy is lost during impact 13 . This loss was attributed to viscous dissipation within the lamella 13 15 until experiments of low-viscosity drop impacts on super-hydrophobic and slippery substrates suggested that a large fraction of the energy was actually converted to internal kinetic energy (akin to turbulence) 16 18 . Several recent works have since attempted to bridge the gap between these two regimes 12, 19, 20 . The numerical simulations of Wildeman et al. 12 are of particular interest for this study, as they show the location of viscous losses within the drops during impacts, and quantify the fraction of energy dissipated as viscous work and internal kinetic energy over the entire spreading step with no-slip and free-slip boundary conditions. According to this model, nearly half of the initial kinetic energy of low-viscosity droplets is lost as viscous dissipation in the lamella during spreading, regardless of the slip length, impact velocity and uid viscosity. The stability of the lamella formed during the impact is also a key concern for DEG. In- tuitively, a splashing droplet releases some surface and kinetic energy in the form of ejected daughter droplets. Lamella breakup depends on a competition between a destabilizing suc- tion and lubrication forces that lift it from the
__label__nonenergy	The paper presents archaeological findings and historical analysis of ancient civilizations and cultural heritage preservation.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	NUCLEAR ENERGY ENERGY SUPPLY Future energy supply in Germany Can nuclear energy contribute to the energy transition? Axel Kleidon Harald Lesch In the course of the energy transition, energy generation from nuclear power - through nuclear ﬁssion and perhaps in the future through nuclear fusion - is often proposed as an alternative or supplement to renewable energy sources. There are already good reasons why electricity generation from nuclear energy is signiﬁcantly more expensive than other forms of generation, while increasing dryness as a result of climate change is generally calling into question the reliability of thermal power plants. Nuclear energy is therefore unlikely to play a role in a future energy supply that relies on low costs and reliability. The current restructuring of our energy system relies on renewable energies, especially photovoltaics, wind energy and biomass. But it also needs storage technologies such as pumped storage power plants, batteries or chemical storage such as green hydrogen to compensate for diﬀerences in energy generation and consumption. Nuclear energy and nuclear fusion 1 are also occasionally brought into play as alternatives, especially because they are intended to cover the base load. But how does this ﬁt in with the variable sources of solar and wind? Does it make sense to rely on nuclear energy again? In this article, we focus on a few key and objective reasons that speak against nuclear energy and nuclear fusion. We primarily look at the costs, i.e. the goal of creating the cheapest possible energy system of the future that is free of fossil fuels. But the availability of water, which is needed to cool thermal power plants, is also critical. Other goals often play a role in nuclear energy, such as military use - as with existing and potential nuclear powers - or the goal of becoming independent of energy imports from abroad in order to avoid being blackmailed - especially in Eastern European countries. In Germany, however, we can achieve the latter goal by using solar and wind power. Costs of energy production The key to determining the contribution of a form of energy generation to society s energy needs is an estimate of its costs, in this case the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) . To calculate this, the investment costs for construction (I), the maintenance costs (M) and the costs for fuel (F) are of 113 Translated version, published originally in German. Cite as: Kleidon, A., and Lesch, H. (2024) Kann Kernenergie zur Energiewende beitragen? , Physik in unserer Zeit, available online. https: doi.org 10.1002 piuz.202401718 added together over the lifetime. We divide this by the expected electricity yield (Y) over the lifetime. The equation for the LCOE is thus obtained (in units of kWh or Euro kWh): LCOE Sum of all costs Expected yield . (1) The index i describes the year in which the costs are incurred. The totals run over the expected lifetime n in years. The expressions in the denominators in the form (1 r )i describe the weighting by the discount rate r. This economic concept mainly describes the eﬀects of interest rates and inﬂation. The discount factor can be used to calculate future costs or income back to today. This discount factor is used to weight the costs and beneﬁts over the lifetime. Other costs that arise during operation, such as for CO 2 emission certiﬁcates from conventional power plants, but also the disposal costs of nuclear power plants, can also be added here. Current values of the production costs for various types of electricity generation are summarised in Figure 1 2, 3 . Let s take a closer look at the expression for the electricity generation costs. The costs are usually dominated by the investment costs I that arise from building a power plant, a wind farm, a solar park or the like. In addition, there are the running costs for operation, maintenance and repair. In the case of conventional power plants, there are also the costs for the fuel - coal, gas, or ﬁssile or ni 1(Ii Mi Fi) (1 r)i ni 1Yi (1 r)i of 213 FIG. 1 ELECTRICITY GENERATION COSTS Comparison of electricity generation costs according to Lazard (blue, international, in US cents per kWh) and Fraunhofer (red, focused on Germany, in Euro cents per kWh). Storage includes various forms of storage in the form of mechanical, thermal, or chemical energy. This summary (simplified according to 2 and 3 ) excludes subsidies that arise, for example, from the storage of nuclear waste, but are paid for by the state of Germany. The lower costs of rooftop photovoltaics are probably due to experience and lower installation costs in Germany. fusion material for nuclear or fusion reactors - or for CO 2 emissions. With renewable energies such as wind and solar, however, these costs for the fuel or emissions do not arise. These costs are divided by the electricity yield Y, described by the denumerator in equation (1), to determine the average electricity production costs. The electricity yield in turn is described by the of 313 FIG. 2 COST DEVELOPMENT Cost evolution of photovoltaics (red, in 2022 US dollars) and nuclear power plants (blue, in 1998 French francs) in the past (data: Our World in Data 4 , adapted from various sources, 5 ) . capacity of the plant, i.e. how much electricity a plant can generate at most (in megawatts, MW), and the capacity factor, which describes the utilisation. The product of installed capacity and capacity factor then gives the electricity yield. In a thermal power plant, the type of management determines the capacity factor; in renewable energies such as photovoltaics and wind energy, it is mainly determined by the availability of the sun and wind. We can see that photovoltaics and wind are already cheaper to generate electricity than conventional power plants. We can also see from equation (1) that conventional power plants generate cheap electricity especially when they run continuously, i.e. when they have a high capacity factor. Base load power plants
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__nonenergy	We examine environmental monitoring and remote sensing technologies for ecological assessment and conservation.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We present computational fluid dynamics simulations for aerodynamic design and optimization in automotive engineering.
__label__energy	1 Impact of the Inflation Reduction Act and Carbon Capture on Transportation Electrification for a Net-Zero Western U.S. Grid Samrat Acharya , Malini Ghosal , Travis Thurber , Ying Zhang , Casey D. Burleyson , and Nathalie V oisin Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354, USA University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA samrat.acharya pnnl.gov Abstract The electrification of transportation is critical to mitigate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. The United States (U.S.) government s Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022 intro- duces policies to promote the electrification of transportation. In addition to electrifying transportation, clean energy technologies such as Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) may play a major role in achieving a net-zero energy system. Utilizing scenarios simulated by the U.S. version of the Global Change Analysis Model (GCAM-USA), we analyze the individual and compound contributions of the IRA and CCS to reach a clean U.S. grid by 2035 and net-zero GHG emissions by 2050. We analyze the contributions based on three metrics: i) transportation electrifi- cation rate, ii) transportation fuel mix, and iii) spatio-temporal charging loads. Our findings indicate that the IRA significantly accelerates transportation electrification in the near-term (until 2035). In contrast, CCS technologies, by enabling the continued use of internal combustion vehicles while still advancing torward net-zero, potentially suppresses the rate of transportation electri- fication in the long-term. This study underscores how policy and technology innovation can interact and sensitivity studies with different combination are essential to characterize the potential contributions of each to the transportation electrification. Index Terms Carbon Capture and Storage, Electric Vehicles, Global Change Analysis Model, Inflation Reduction Act, Net- Zero Emissions, Transportation Electrification. I. I NTRODUCTION THe urgency to mitigate climate change has prompted governments and concerned authorities worldwide to propose ambitious decarbonization targets aimed at reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. A myriad of factors in- fluence the potential pathways to meet those targets includ- ing projected advancements in technology, socio-economic considerations, and packages of incentives and policies that combine those considerations 1 . The inherent uncertainty surrounding these factors and their combinations lead to the existence of multiple potential pathways to achieve a given decarbonization objective 2 . In this paper, we scrutinize specifically the pathways to decarbonize the transportation sector, a major GHG emitter in the United States (U.S.) 3 . We quantify for the first time across the whole vehicle fleet the coupled influences of the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technologies on transportation electrification rates. This combination is important because the IRA policies tend to incentivize the electrification of transportation sector while CCS technologiesare expected to provide relief in that same electrification 4 . We quantify a range of uncertainties in key transportation sector metrics to inform power system operators and utilities in their long-term planning for resource adequacy and Electric Vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure planners and investors for meeting the decarbonization objectives. The U.S. government s IRA, enacted in 2022, stands as one of the most substantial investments aimed at combating climate change and steering the economy towards net-zero emissions by 2050 5 . This comprehensive initiative includes incentives targeting various aspects of clean energy produc- tion as well as the domestic manufacturing of technologies crucial for reducing carbon emissions such as batteries and EVs. Specifically, within the transportation sector, the IRA encompasses provisions for promoting clean fuel vehicles, incentivizing the establishment of charging infrastructure, and encouraging domestic production of clean vehicles and their components. Section II-B will delve into the specifics of the clean transportation measures outlined within the IRA. Given the potential interactions of IRA policies with CCS technolo- gies, a sensitivity around the IRA provides a benchmark for isolating the individual versus impacted contributions to the electrification of transportation sector. The IRA is set to expire in 2032 while the net zero economy goal is expected to be achieved by 2050. It is therefore strategic to isolate the impact of the policy through 2050 which can provide information to planners such as the value for early investors (by 2032) versus late investors (past 2032). CCS are necessary technologies to combat climate change 6 . For instance, various climate change assessments such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Chang, the Interna- tional Energy Agency, and the UK s Committee on Climate Change indicate that the GHG emission reduction targets set in the 2015 Paris Agreement 7 cannot be met without CCS 6 . CCS technologies primarily isolate and capture CO 2 from industrial emissions and from atmosphere (e.g., direct air capture), storing it underground or sequestering it. These technologies are only beginning to be deployed 8 , 9 . For example, only 15 CCS facilities were deployed in the U.S. as This is a preprint. It s complete copyright version will be available on the publisher s website after publication.arXiv:2408.12535v1 eess.SY 22 Aug 2024 2 of 2023, accounting for 0.4 of nation-wide CO 2emissions 10 . Furthermore, the survey in 11 finds U.S. residents with low awareness and support on CCS, primarily because of their rising cost and deployments near residential areas. However, several studies envisage the significant deployment of CCS in the next decade 10 , 12 . Thus, understanding the contribution of CCS technologies to various potential decarbonization scenarios might help develop incentives to its adoption in line with its contribution to the overarching decarbonization goals. In this study, we use the U.S. version of the Global Change Analysis Model (GCAM-USA), an open source multi- sectoral economics model 13 , to develop scenarios that reflect the IRA policies and potential widespread adoption of CCS technologies. These scenarios incorporate three U.S. decarbonization goals; i) to reduce nationwide GHG emissions by 50 in 2030 relative to 2005 levels, ii) to achieve a clean U.S. power grid by 2035, and iii) to achieve a net- zero nationwide economy by 2050. Details on GCAM-USA and the scenarios explored are provided in Section II-A. To asses the impact of IRA policies on transportation, we study two scenarios that reflect combinations of scenarios
__label__nonenergy	We present a novel approach to natural language processing using transformer architectures for sentiment analysis and text classification tasks.
__label__energy	Dynamics for droplet -based electricity generators Xiang Wang, Sunmiao Fang, Jin Tan, Tao Hu, Weicun Chu , Jun Yin , Jianxin Zhou , Wanlin Guo Key Laboratory for Intelligent Nano Materials and Devices of the Ministry of Education, State Key Laboratory of Mechanics and Control of Mechanical Structu res, Institute of Nanoscience, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing 210016, China Corresponding author. E-mail: wlguo nuaa.edu.cn ABSTRACT The finding of droplet -based electricity generator1 (DEG) , based on the moving boundary of electrical double layer, has triggered great research enthusiasm2-19, and a breakthrough in instantaneous electric power density was achieved recently19. However, the dynamic mechanism for such droplet-based electricity generators remains elusive, impeding optimization of the DEG for practical applications. Through comprehensive experiments , we developed a dynamic model of surface charge density that can explain the underlying mechanism for the DEG s. The spreading droplet in touch with the top electrode can be equivalently regarded as an additional part of the top plate of the DE G capacitor, and the change of droplet area causes the change of surface charge density of the plates, driving electrons to migrate between the two plates. The insight of the dynamic mechanism paves a way for optimal design and practical applications of DEGs. Keywords: droplet -based electricity generator (DEG) , moving boundary, dynamic model, surface charge density Introduction Harvesting the tremendous energy contained in water directly through its interaction with functional materials has been drawing increasing interesting and research enthusiasm1-19, leading to the emerging hydrovoltaic technology10, convert ing various forms of energy from water to electric power . Among these techniques, the droplet - based electricity generator (DEG) has attracted significant attention, which is capable to generate higher instantaneous electric power density using simpler design. But the underlying mechanism of some EDG s remains elusive . Recently, a mathematical RC circuit model was proposed to describe the electrical signal of a particular EDG quantitatively20, however, it is not the inverse of electrowetting conceptually and is lack of a dynamic understanding . To furthe r develop DEGs and transform them to practical applications, a clear mechanism is vitally required. Here we perform comprehensive experimental investigation using a DEG similar to that reported previously19, which can generate electricity repeated ly by dropping a series of droplets . Based on observation of the dynamics of the droplet by a high -speed camera and measurement of its induced electric signals , we develop a dynamic model of surface charge density for the work ing mechanism of this DEG . The dynamic model paves the way for the further optimization of DEG s. Result s The device structure is illustra ted in Fig.1a, where a 15 mm 2 mm piece of copper electrode lies on the top surface of a PTFE film with a dimension of 25 mm 55 mm 0.03 mm, whose back side was coated with gold electrode . The PTFE film was attached to a class slide for support . As shown in Fig.1b , one tap droplet ( ion concentration around 3mM ) generated a sharp positive voltage pulse up to 143.8 V and a followed negative voltage signal up to -15.1 V (The droplet was release d at a height of 15 cm, while the devi ce was placed with a tilt angle of 35 ). It s worth noting that there was a negative pulse following the positive pulse, which means a back flow of electrons . Before the droplet contact s the electrode , no voltage is generated. At Ttouch, when the droplet touch es the top electrode , a sharp voltage peak is suddenly induced . Following that , the voltage changes while the droplet area changes dynamically (Fig. 1c). The output electric power is high enough to instantaneously light up a light - emitting diodes (LED) , as shown in Supplementary video 1. Droplet PTFE Au Glass slide Cu V 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.11-300306090120150 Voltage (V) Time (s)Vpeak TtouchTmaxTseparate S0 S0 S0 S0 t T touch t Ttouch t Ttouch t Tmax S0 S1 S2 a b c 5mm Figure 1 . Voltage pulse generated by dropping a droplet onto the device . (a) Schematic illustration o f the droplet -based generator. (b) Voltage pulse generated by dropping one droplet . Ttouch, Tmax, Tseparate denote the time one droplet just touch es the top electrode and the voltage pulse appears , the time droplet spreads to maximum area and the time droplet separated from the electrode respectively. Orange region: time interval of droplet spreading. Green region: time interval of droplet shrinking. (c) Observation of the dynamics of the droplet. Here S0, S denote the area of the top electrode and the droplet area subtracted by the area covered with the top electrode respectively. To reveal the relationship between the output signal and the dynamical change of the droplet area, we took a close -up vi ew through a high-speed camera , it was discovered that the area change rate of the spreading droplet dS dt shows a similar - shaped curve compared with the voltage pulse , which suggested there is a close relationship between induced voltage and dS dt . The dS dt and output voltage peak ( Vpeak) also show similar dependence on factors including the height ( H) and frequency of the released droplet, as well as tilt angle ( α) of the (inset of Fig. 2b). As shown in Fig. 2b, the droplet released from a higher height causes a larger maximum of dS dt as a result of the larger velocity when touching the electrode. Meanwhile, the induced voltage peak increases with the increase of the height, showing simi lar trend. Whe n the droplets are released at a faster frequency, dS dt has a larger maximum. This is due to the lack of time for the water film to leave the surface completely before the next droplet falls, and the residue of the water film acting as a lubricant, leading to a
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__energy	Identifying Dealbreakers and Robust Policies for the Energy Transition Amid Unexpected Events Diederik Coppittersa, , Gabriel Wiestb, Leonard G okeb,c, Francesco Continoa, Andr e Bardowb, Stefano Moretb aInstitute of Mechanics, Materials and Civil Engineering (iMMC), Universit e catholique de Louvain (UCLouvain), Place du Levant, 2, 1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium bEnergy Process Systems Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Z urich, Switzerland cReliability and Risk Engineering, Institute of Energy and Process Engineering, ETH Z urich, Switzerland Abstract Disruptions in energy imports, backlash in social acceptance, and novel technologies fail- ing to develop are unexpected events that are often overlooked in energy planning, despite their ability to jeopardize the energy transition. We propose a method to explore unex- pected events and assess their impact on the transition pathway of a large-scale whole- energy system. First, we evaluate unexpected events assuming perfect foresight , where decision-makers can anticipate such events in advance. This allows us to identify deal- breakers, i.e., conditions that make the transition infeasible. Then, we assess the events under limited foresight to evaluate the robustness of early-stage decisions against un- foreseen unexpected events and the costs associated with managing them. A case study for Belgium demonstrates that a lack of electrofuel imports in 2050 is the main deal- breaker, while accelerating the deployment of renewables is the most robust policy. Our transferable method can help policymakers identify key dealbreakers and devise robust energy transition policies. Keywords: Whole-energy systems, transition pathways, energy modelling, optimization, uncertainty, unexpected events, myopic decision-making. Corresponding author Email address: diederik.coppitters uclouvain.be (Diederik Coppitters) March 11, 2025arXiv:2503.05735v1 cs.CY 19 Feb 2025 1. Introduction Energy planning models involve numerous inputs that are inherently uncertain, such as technology and resource availability, energy commodity prices, and demand levels 1 . Modellers represent this uncertainty if they consider it at all with probabilities or un- certainty ranges 2 and generate results based on them, following a predict-then-act approach 3 . However, this approach tends to underestimate the full spectrum of pos- sible futures 4 , leading to overconfidence in the selected course of action 5 . This un- derestimation occurs because uncertainty characterizations focus on the ordinary and predictable, and overlook, for instance, unexpected events 6 . Here, we define unex- pected events as events that are largely mispredicted or unpredicted, significantly deviate from expectations, and persist long enough to influence strategic decisions, such as social resistance blocking wind power expansion 7 , a disruption in resource supplies due to geopolitical tensions 8 , or the failed breakthrough of anticipated technologies like nu- clear Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) 9 . Details about the terminology are provided in Supplementary Note 1. Although rare, unexpected events can substantially disrupt the course of action and transform dependencies into vulnerabilities 10 . For instance, if an anticipated resource like green hydrogen falls short, initial investments in hydrogen infrastructure could become obsolete 11 . These unexpected events should, therefore, not be ignored in the decision-making process 2 . Yet, their rarity and the limited data on their likelihood make them unsuitable for conventional risk-informed approaches, as the probability of unexpected events is deemed so negligible that standard uncertainty propagation techniques fail to recognize them as viable scenarios 13 . Therefore, methods are needed to assess the role of unexpected events in energy system planning 14 . Existing studies primarily use Story-and-Simulation (SAS) approaches to assess the vulnerability of energy systems to a specific unexpected event 15, 16 . These assessments lead to proposed mitigation strategies in a specific context, such as adopting integrated energy markets to reduce risks related to supply disruptions 17 or deploying existing low-carbon technologies to avoid reliance on unicorn technologies that may never materi- alize 4 . Although valuable, SAS approaches rely on predefined scenarios 19 , which lim- its their capacity to guide decision-making across a broad spectrum of unexpected-event scenarios 20 . In the context of decision-making across a broad spectrum of scenarios with unknown likelihoods, methodologies from Decision Making under Deep Uncertainty 2 (DMDU) are gaining traction 21 . Unlike traditional predict-then-act approaches, where energy system planners typically agree on assumptions about the input parameter uncer- tainties, DMDU focuses on agreeing on decisions by exploring a variety of possible futures, identifying vulnerabilities, and proposing robust alternatives 22 . Despite its potential, the application of DMDU methods in energy system planning is scarce, applied only for uncertainties within predictable ranges 23 25 , and seemingly unexplored in combination with unexpected events. An additional drawback of existing studies assessing unexpected events in energy sys- tem planning is that nearly all the employed energy system models operate under a perfect foresight approach 2 . This unrealistic approach assumes complete knowledge about the future when optimizing investment decisions, allowing early-stage decisions in the energy transition to be tailored for a specific unexpected event predicted far in advance 26 . Myopic pathway optimization models are better suited for this context, as they enable sequential decision-making with limited foresight 27 . In this more realistic setting, early- stage investment decisions are made without knowledge of an unexpected event that may later arise. Yet, myopic decision-making models are relatively rare 28, 29 , with only a handful applications incorporating SAS-based unexpected event assessments 4, 30 . In this paper, we propose a method to assess unexpected events in energy system planning (Figure 1). The method enables an open exploration of unexpected-event sce- narios and leverages both perfect and myopic foresight to identify the dealbreakers for the energy transition and emphasize the significance of early-stage decisions. Specifically, we examine combinations of the main unexpected events that could jeopardize the transi- tion, including unrealized breakthroughs in unicorn technologies, sharp deteriorations in exchange rates with other economies driving up the cost of imported technologies, geopo- litical tensions disrupting energy imports, and various forms of social resistance: resistance to building renovations, to mobility changes, to the widespread deployment of renewable technologies and to nuclear power. The impact of these unexpected-event scenarios on achieving an energy transition within climate targets at
__label__energy	1 On the Carbon Dioxide Capture by Quaternary Ammonium -Based and Phosphonium -Based Ionic Liquids . The Role of Steric Hindrances and Transition States Vitaly V. Chaban(1) (1) P.E.S., Vasilievsky Island, Saint Petersburg 190000 , Russian Federation. Abstract . Global warming is seen as a drastic environmental problem nowadays. Carb on dioxide (CO 2) concentration i n the Earth s atmosphere is linked to the average temperature on the surface of the planet. Carbon capture and storage is an important technological endeavor aiming to improve the ecology. The present work investigates reaction paths that are responsible for CO 2 chemis orption by the ammonium - and phosphonium -based ionic liquids containing an aprotic heterocyclic anion 2-cyanopyrrolidine . We show that two moles of CO 2 per one mole of the gas scavenger can be theoretically fixed by such ionic liquids . Both the cation and anion participate in the chemisorption. The corresponding standard enthalpies are moderately negative. The barriers of all reactions involving the phosphonium -based cation are relatively small and favor practical applications of the considered sorbents. The performance of the ammonium -based cation is less favorable due to the inherent instability of the tetraalkyl ammonium ylide. The role is phosphoniu m ylide in the mechanism of the reaction is carefully characterized. The reported results foster a fundamental understanding of the outstanding CO 2 sorption p erformance of the quaternary ammonium and phosphonium -based 2-cyanopyrrolidine s. Keywords : ammonium -based ionic liquids ; phosphonium -based ionic liquids ; carbon dioxide; ionic liquids . 2 Graphical Abstract 3 Introduction The term of global warming stands for the designation of the large -scale trend .1 During the last twelve decades, t he average Earth s temperature increased by 0.08 degrees Celsius per year. Furthermore, during the last forty years , the pace of this change increased more than twice. Although the recorded changes may seem insignificant for a non -speci alist, they do have ecological consequences including thawing of glaciers, climate changes, more acidic oceans, etc.2-4 Human technologies lead to higher emissions of carbon dioxide ( CO 2) that may be the cause of environmental problems. The technological superstructures are currently being developed aiming to capture, store and chemi cally modify CO 2 to obtain useful and or benign products.5,6 CO 2 is a highly thermodynamically stable compound that is a final product of organic matter combustion . Its stability is a major reason why CO 2 scavenging is a challenging chemical endeavor that will likely never get a straightforward solution . Nevertheless, novel robust methods for CO 2 processing7-15 can be elaborated and industrially implemented.5 Thoughtful application and fine -tuning of the versatile nanoscale pores play a paramount role in the gradual i ncrease of the presently available CO 2 sorption capacities.16-19 Apart from the up-to-date breakthrough developments, a mine scrubbing is a leading and well -established technology nowadays, even though it presents evident drawbacks, such as perpetual degeneration of the amine solution s due to their working chemical reaction s.20,21 Time is necessary for humanity to implement more chemically advanced solutions on the large scale. Room -temperature ionic liquids (RT ILs) represent a huge -sized class of organic - inorganic chemical compounds that are liquid at standard conditions.22-28 The liquid state of the prospective CO 2 sorbent is a definite advantage since it allows the gas molecules to spontaneously diffuse to the location where chemisorption takes place. Furthermore, RTILs exhibit negligible volatility even in their pure state thanks to a strong cation -anion attraction . 4 An ideal CO 2 sorbent would allow reversible chemisorption so that the fixed gas could be extracted and the working liquid could be regenerated . RTILs contain chemically tunable structures meaning that new compounds can be synthesized on request in a relatively easy way. Fine-tunable physical -chemical properties form a prerequisite to develop ing task-specific systems and environments . Computer simulations of RTILs constitute a large , vivid , and vigorously developing research field with substantial methodological and engine ering advances .29-33 Padua and coworkers32 recently developed a highly efficient polarizable force field to simulate condensed phases of ionic liquids. In turn, Canongia Lopes and coworkers made a conside rable impact on the understanding of versatile aqueous ionic liquid -based systems through the simulation of peculiar non -covalent interactions.30,31 Cordeiro and coworkers contributed an advanced description of the ionic liquids behavior at the interface and linked new insights to the differen tial capacitance of a possible electrochemical device.33 Andreeva and coworkers investigated thermo dynamics for a large num ber of ionic liquid famili es and outlined their suitability to act as non -volatile and non -flammable CO 2 sorbents.34,35 The most promising RTILs in the context of CO 2 sorption are composed of bulky organic cations and chemically reactive anions .23,25,27 The aprotic heterocyclic anions (AHA s) represent an interesting family of organic structures with a set of potential applications in different field s of chemical engineering due to their strong affinity to the proton . This feature of AHAs can arguably convert many thermodynamically forbidden reactions into favorable ones. It is essential to couple AHAs with the bulky and asymmetric cations to block all strong electrostatic attractions in the resulting liquid -state system. The organic structures with the delocalized excess or deficient electronic charge steric ally prevent RTILs from crystallizing at the ambient temperature . Higher conformation flexibility of the particles favors their smarter performance gas greenhouse gas scavenger s. The inability of the cation and the anion to attain a distinct 5 electrostatically -driven coordination pattern liberate their potential to bind CO 2. Upon the development of competitive AHA -based RTILs, there is alw ays an interplay of melting point and shear viscosity that limits out possibilities to tune physical -chemical properties of the prospective CO 2 scavengers.36 In the present theoretical work, we investigate a few of the most promising ionic liquids in the context of CO 2 capture. Indeed, i n the tetrabutylammonium 2-cyanopyrrolidine and tetrabutylphosphonium 2 -cyanopyrrolidine ,
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This study focuses on marine biology and oceanographic research in deep-sea environments and ecosystem dynamics.
__label__energy	Simulating the Smart Grid Manfred P ochacker1, Anita Sobe2, Wilfried Elmenreich1;3 1Institute of Networked and Embedded Systems Lakeside Labs Alpen-Adria Universit at Klagenfurt, Austria 2Institut d informatique, Universit e de Neuch ˆatel, Switzerland 3Complex Systems Engineering, Universit at Passau, Germany manfred.poechacker aau.at, anita.sobe unine.ch, wilfried.elmenreich aau.at Abstract Major challenges for the transition of power sys- tems do not only tackle power electronics but also communication technology, power market economy and user acceptance studies. Simulation is an important research method therein, as it helps to avoid costly failures. A common smart grid simulation platform is still missing. We introduce a conceptual model of agents in multiple ﬂow networks. Flow networks extend the depth of established power ﬂow analysis through use of networks of information ﬂow and ﬁnancial transactions. We use this model as a basis for comparing different power system simulators. Furthermore, a quantitative comparison of simulators is done to facilitate the decision for a suitable tool in comprehensive smart grid simulation. Keywords Smart Grid Simulation, Network Flow I. I NTRODUCTION The power grid has started its transition towards the Smart Grid. This development increases the level of complexity in the energy system 1 , arising from the integration of distributed and renewable energy resources, smart meters, smart appli- ances and electric vehicles (EV), etc. into the electrical grid. For this reason, researchers of different ﬁelds are investigating a variety of topics related to the smart grid, such as dynamic price markets 2 , demand response 3 , smart meters 4 or prediction models 5 . Since the operation of a power grid is usually vital for its users, opportunities for testing novel approaches are very limited. Therefore, to evaluate the impact of new methods for future smart grids, simulation has to be used. Most of the current simulators for smart grid scenarios originate in simulation of electric power systems, control circuits or agent based markets. Recently, development trends towards cross discipline simulations. As the research ﬁeld is broad 6 , it is hard to decide whether a particular simulator ﬁts the whole smart grid system or only parts of it. In this paper we answer the following questions regarding a simulator for the complete smart grid system: 1) What areas should a smart grid simulator cover? 2) Which functionalities do current simulators provide? 3) How congruent are their results? To answer the ﬁrst question, a generic model is introduced which is based on power system simulation and additionally This work is supported by the Carinthian Economic Promotion Fund (KWF) under grant 20214 22935 34445 (Project Smart Microgrid Lab). We would like to thank Lizzie Dawes for proofreading the paper.considers two reliable circumstances. Firstly, the smart grid optimizes energy distribution through the use of more speciﬁc information and secondly, power markets are expected to manage the alignment of power demand with the current production through pricing. The proposed model is based on a combination of an agent- based approach with electrical power ﬂow, ﬂow of data in the ICT network and ﬂow of payments through the ﬁnancial transaction network. After sketching the desirable state of smart grid simulation, we identify scopes of operation for several power system simulators available free of charge. Finally, four of the simulators are quantitatively compared by applying them to a common test case of power ﬂow analysis. This article provides an overview and results of a discussion on simulation design for smart grids and facilitates the decision of which tools and models to be used in future research. The model including agents and ﬂow networks is described in the next section. The third section contains a comparison of ten different simulators for power systems. Four of those are subjects of the quantitative comparison by means of a test- case in the succeeding part of the paper. Finally, we give our conclusion. II. A GENTS IN MULTIPLE FLOW NETWORKS The overall goal of a smart grid is to contribute to greater efﬁciency, reliability and environmental sustainability in en- ergy usage, which requires the best possible alignment of power generation, power consumption and (limited) storage capabilities. Such an alignment impacts user behavior, cultural habits, social norms, power markets, climate conditions and many other factors. We propose a model that combines agent-based simulation and the notion of network ﬂows. A power system can be easily represented by a network model, as in power ﬂow simulation. In the Smart Grid, this model is extended by: The ﬂow of data in the ICT network and the ﬂow of payment through the ﬁnancial transaction network. The agents are decision making entities that interact with each other through the three different types of networks: energy, information and payment ﬂow networks. The following example helps to explain this idea to the reader. Let us imagine a simple smart grid scenario that includes the following entities: A consumer, a grid operator and a smart meter, an electric vehicle (EV) and a switching device.arXiv:1304.2503v1 cs.SY 9 Apr 2013 payment flow consumer producer transmission grid operator HANtraderagents energy flowinformation flowdistribution grid operator generation transmissiondistribution consumptionfiber network PLCLAN WANmobile communicationoperating reserve tradingwholesale power market costumer supply agreement control and measurmentFig. 1. A random smart grid example with agents in three ﬂow networks (energy, information and payment). The nodes (circle for energy, hexagon for information, diamond for payment) in the network modify the ﬂow; they are emitters and or receivers of it. Nodes can have different functions with respect to their locations, e. g., power generation, LAN routing, power market operator. The agents are the decision making entities and control several nodes and are the main interconnection between the different ﬂow networks. Electrical power is transmitted from the smart meter (energized by the grid operator), through the switch into the storage of the EV . Information is transmitted by the consumer who controls the switch and connects the EV . The consumer is informed by the EV about its energy demand, by the smart meter about the current energy price and the switch about its state. Further information ﬂows
__label__nonenergy	This research investigates quantum computing algorithms for cryptographic applications and security protocols in distributed systems.
__label__energy	Federated Fog Computing for Remote Industry 4.0 Applications Razin Farhan Hussain A Dissertation presented to the Graduate Faculty in Partial Ful llment of the Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Philosophy University of Louisiana at Lafayette Fall 2022 APPROVED: Mohsen Amini Salehi, Chair The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Sheng Chen The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Xu Yuan The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Li Chen The Center for Advanced Computer Studies Mary Farmer-Kaiser Dean of the Graduate SchoolarXiv:2301.00484v1 cs.DC 1 Jan 2023 Razin Farhan Hussain 2022 All Rights Reserved Abstract Industry 4.0 operates based on IoT devices, sensors, and actuators, transforming the use of computing resources and software solutions in diverse sectors. Various Industry 4.0 latency-sensitive applications function based on machine learning and utilize the generated sensor data for automation and other industrial activities. Sending sensor data to cloud systems is time consuming and detrimental to the latency constraints of the applications. In this circumstance, fog computing can be used to support latency-sensitive applications. Executing these applications across heterogeneous fog systems demonstrates stochastic execution time behaviour that a ects the task completion time. Hence, we investigate and model various Industry 4.0 ML-based applications stochastic executions and introduce real-world execution time traces of Industry 4.0 applications. Remote o shore industries like oil and gas are prone to disasters requiring the coordination of various latency-sensitive activities. Accordingly, their procured fog computing resources can get oversubscribed due to the surge in the computing demands during a disaster. Hence, in this dissertation, we propose federating nearby fog computing systems and forming a fog federation to make remote Industry 4.0 sites resilient against the surge in computing demands. We propose a statistical resource allocation method across fog federation for latency-sensitive tasks. Many of the modern Industry 4.0 applications operate based on a work ow of micro-services that are used alone within an industrial site. As such, industry 4.0 solutions need to be aware of applications architecture, particularly monolithic vs. iii micro-service. Therefore, we propose a probability-based resource allocation method that can partition micro-service work ows across fog federation to meet their latency constraints. Another concern in Industry 4.0 is the data privacy of the federated fog. As such, we propose a solution based on federated learning to train industrial ML applications across federated fog systems without compromising the data con dentiality. iv To my wife, Rezwana Mahjabeen, my daughter, Ruzainah Shehzeen Hussain, my parents, H.K.M. Altaf Hussain and Fariha Akhter, my Sister, Sabrina Shahreen Sarna, my brother, Shoumin Rafsun Hussain and to all my friends and loved ones. Acknowledgments I sincerely thank my supervisor, Dr. Mohsen Amini Salehi, for his constant encouragement and passion for computer science and, especially, for his guidance, support, and cooperation. Thanks to my dissertation committee, Dr. Xu Yuan, Dr. Li Chen, and Dr. Sheng Chen. Thanks to Sm Zobaed, Ali Mokhtari, Davood Ghatreh Samani, and Chavit Denninart for their assistance in the work of this dissertation. Finally, thanks go to the Center for Advanced Computer Studies and the Graduate School at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette for their support and guidance. vi Table of Contents Abstract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii Dedication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vi List of Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xii List of Figures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xiv Chapter 1: Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1.1 Research Problem and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1.2 Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 1.3 Dissertation Organisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Chapter 2: Background and Literature Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 2.1 Computing as a Prominent Aspect of Industry 4.0 . . . . . . . . . . 13 2.2 Distributed Computing Systems in Industry
__label__energy	A Comprehensive Review of Wind Energy in Malaysia: Past, Present and Future Research Trends Fuad Noman , Gamal Alkawsi, Dallatu Abbas, Ammar Alkahtani, Seih Kiong Tiong, Janaka Ekanyake Abstract Wind energy has gained a huge interest in the recent years in various countries due to the high demand of energy and the shortage of traditional electricity sources. This is because it is cost e ective and environmentally friendly source that could contribute signi cantly to the reduction of the ever- increasing carbon emissions. Wind energy is one of the fastest growing green technology worldwide with a total generation share of 564 GW as the end of 2018. In Malaysia, wind energy has been a topic of interest in both academia and green energy industry. In this paper, the current status of wind energy research in Malaysia is reviewed. Di erent contributing factors such as potentiality and assessments, wind speed and direction modelling, wind prediction and spatial mapping, and optimal sizing of wind farms are extensively discussed. This paper discusses the progress of all wind studies and presents conclusions and recommendations to improve wind research in Malaysia. Keywords: renewable sources, sizing optimization, Wind energy, wind farm design, wind mapping, wind potentiality, wind prediction. 1 Introduction The increased demand for energy across the globe has led to Malaysia recognizing the signi cance of renewable energy as a supplement to conventional sources in generating electricity. Malaysia has estab- lished several energy policies that made the country one of the leading in energy production in South East Asia. The rst National Energy Policy was coined in 1979 and 2011, the Renewable Energy Act was put into existence. The policy framework has the objectives to identify the energy needs properly, conserving resources and environment, promote sustainable development, and low carbon technology 1, 2 . Malaysia pledged to the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2009 (COP15) to decrease the carbon emis- sions by 40 3 and committed to reducing its Green House Gas emissions by 45 by 2030 with respect to the year 2005 4, 5 . The new Net Energy Metering (NEM) mechanism updated in 2019, proposes equal tari for buying and selling electricity for NEM members. This recent process is expected to engage more customers to adopt renewable technology for example wind turbines and solar panels; however, the current NEM covers only the energy generated from solar panels 6 . Currently, renewable energy in Malaysia are mainly comes from biomass, biogas, solar, wind, mini hydro 6 . Figure 1 summarizes the installed electricity supply capacity mix for the entire Malaysia (Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) as of December 2018 7 9 . Figure 1(a) shows the total installed non-renewable sources dominated by fossil fuels, gas (43 ) and coal (37 ) with hydro plants larger than 100 MW (19 ) and 1 of diesel generators. On the other hand, the renewable sources (grid-tied only), as shown in Figure 1(b), covers solar (67 ), biomass (11 ), biogas (10 ), LSS NEM (6 ), mini-hydro (5 ), and solid waste (1 ). The renewable capacity provides a total of 625 MW representing 2 of total energy capacity in Malaysia. However, Institute of Sustainable Energy, Universiti Tenaga National, Jalan Ikram-Uniten, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia (e-mail: fuad.noman uniten.edu.my) 1arXiv:2004.11538v1 eess.SY 24 Apr 2020 Malaysian green technology master plan (GTMP) targets to increase the capacity of renewable sources mix to 20 by 2025. 1 5 11 10 67 6 Solid Waste Mini Hydro Biomass Biogas Solar LSS NEM2018 (625MW)43 37 19 1 Gas Coal Hydro Diesel2018 (30,566MW) Figure 1: Installed energy capacity in Malaysia by plant type (end of 2018). (a) non-renewable sources. (b) renewable sources. LSS: large scale solar, NEM: net energy metering. Most of the wind power studies in Malaysia focus on the features and characteristics of wind speed. That is due to Malaysia faces challenges in wind energy production as Malaysia is located at 5 on the north side of the equator, also the sea and land air in uence the wind circulation system. It was observed that wind changing by area and month and does not blow uniformly 10 . As per the statistics, Malaysia is known to have low wind speeds in comparison to countries with high wind speeds such as Denmark and Netherland. However, several locations in Malaysia have good wind upon a particular time in the year, especially during monsoon seasons. Malaysia has two monsoons, the southwest monsoon (May- September) and northeast monsoon (November-March). The average of the wind speed is usually below 3 m s, which make it less potential for generating countinuous wind energy output, however, the maximum wind speed falls in the range 6-12 m s indicating the possibility to generate wind power at certain times only 11 . With this speed, there have been several attempts to install wind turbines across the country. A few installed wind turbines as pilot projects were found in the literature. The rst wind turbine of 150 kW was installed at Pulau Terumbu Layang-Layang (Sabah), and the ndings con rmed the success of the project 12 . In contrast, the turbines of 100 kW installed within a hybrid system at Perhentian Island were failed. The on-site observations noticed that the turbines did not rotate continuously 13 . Besides, an earlier pilot project was implemented in a shrimp farm in Setiu (Terengganu) with a wind turbine of 3.3 kW. The turbine was connected directly to water pump systems and the aeration on the site , which was estimated to cover almost 40 of the farm s energy consumption with energy cost of 0.98 RM kWh each year 14 . There are few review papers about wind energy in Malaysia that appeared in the literature. However, these reviews are not recent and most of them concentrate on renewable sources in general and do not discuss the literature in depth 15 21 . Among the mentioned papers, only a few reviews concentrate on wind energy. However, these reviews investigate speci c factors such as wind
__label__energy	1 Energy Storage State-of-Charge Market Model Ningkun Zheng, Student Member, IEEE, Xin Qin, Student Member, IEEE, Di Wu, Senior Member, IEEE, Gabe Murtaugh, Bolun Xu, Member, IEEE Abstract This paper introduces and rationalizes a new model for bidding and clearing energy storage resources in wholesale energy markets. Charge and discharge bids in this model depend on the storage state-of-charge (SoC). In this setting, storage participants submit different bids for each SoC segment. The system operator monitors the storage SoC and updates their bids accordingly in market clearings. Combined with an optimal bidding design algorithm using dynamic programming, our paper shows that the SoC segment market model provides more accurate representations of the opportunity costs of energy storage compared to existing power-based bidding models. The new model also captures the inherent SoC-dependent operational characteristics of energy storage. We benchmark the SoC seg- ment market model against an existing single-segment model in price-taker and price-inﬂuencer simulations. The simulation results show that compared to the existing power-based bidding model, the proposed model improves proﬁts by 10-56 in the price-taker case study; the model also improves total system cost reduction from storage by around 5 , and helps reduce price volatilities in the price-inﬂuencer case study. Index Terms Energy storage, dynamic programming, power system economics. I. I NTRODUCTION Energy storage resources, especially battery energy storage, are entering wholesale electricity markets at a surging rate. The battery capacity connected to the California Independent System Operator (CAISO), the power system operator and market organizer of the state of California, has increased from 488 MW at the end of 2020 to 4,367 MW as of Sep 2022 and is expected to reach near 10 GW in 2026 1 3 . According to EIA Annual Electric Generator Report, with increasingly installed energy storage capacity ﬂatten the ancillary service market price, majority of energy storage participants starting to focus on arbitraging in wholesale energy markets 4 . Integrating energy storage resources into wholesale elec- tricity markets requires the development of new models. In centralized electricity markets, which cover most regions in North America, participants must bid using a resource model representing their operational characteristics in the market clearing. For example, thermal generators submit power seg- ment bids stemming from their heat rate curves and other operation or cost parameters, including startup costs, no- load costs, ramp rates, and minimum up and down time 5 . This work was supported in part by Columbia University Data Science Institute Seed Grant UR01006728, and in part by the U.S. Department of Energy, Ofﬁce of Electricity through the Energy Storage program under Contract DE-AC05-76RL01830. N. Zheng and B. Xu are with Columbia University, NY , USA (e-mail: nz2343 columbia.edu, bx2177 columbia.edu); X. Qin is with the University of Cambridge, UK (e-mail: xq234 cam.ac.uk); D. Wu is with Paciﬁc North- west National Laboratory, WA, USA (e-mail: di.wu pnnl.gov); G. Murtaugh is with California ISO, CA, USA (e-mail: gmurtaugh caiso.com ).However, energy storage resources have distinctly different operational characteristics compared to thermal generators and need different bidding parameters. The FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) has recognized this need and issued Order 841, which requires that future electricity market de- signs account for the physical and operational characteristics of electric storage resources through bidding parameters or other means 6 . Managing storage state-of-charge (SoC) is critical for en- ergy storage participants. The storage opportunity cost depends on SoC, and various storage operation factors, including degradation rates and efﬁciencies, depend on power rating and SoC 7 9 . Managing SoC is achievable in day-ahead mar- kets with a 24-hour optimization horizon but is not effective in real-time markets 10 . Currently, most system operators allow storage to participate in markets by self-scheduling or submitting both charge and discharge bids 11 . Storage has complete control over its SoC in self-scheduling but loses the ﬂexibility to react to actual system conditions, decreasing revenue potential and social welfare. Managing SoC through existing bidding models is difﬁcult as storage participants cannot update their bids in a timely manner based on SoC 12 . This paper introduces a storage market model that allows storage participants to effectively manage their economic bids based on SoC and better represents SoC-dependencies of energy storage physical and operational characteristics. The main contribution is ﬁve-fold: We introduce an SoC segment market model for energy storage participation to economically manage their SoC in wholesale electricity markets. The model allows energy storage to submit power rating, efﬁciency, and charge and discharge bids by segments according to the SoC ranges. We incorporate SoC-dependent physical parameters into our previous storage bidding algorithm to generate time- varying SoC-dependent charge and discharge bid curves. We combine the proposed market model with the optimal bidding algorithm to benchmark the proposed model with existing market models in terms of system costs, price results, and storage revenue in price-taker and price- inﬂuencer cases. For storage models whose parameters are independent of SoC, we model SoC-dependent bids as linear program- ming in real-time markets. Results show the proposed model reduces total system costs and price volatility with little effect on the computation time. For storage models whose physical parameters are depen- dent of SoC, we model SoC-dependent bids using mixed- integer linear programming, in which integer variables are required to model the inherent non-convexity. Results show modeling the SoC dependency in day-ahead (multi-arXiv:2207.07221v3 eess.SY 26 Jan 2023 2 period) and real-time markets can signiﬁcantly reduce system costs and price volatilities, and improve storage revenue, but have to trade-off computation time. We organize the remainder of the paper as follows. Sec- tion II reviews related literature. Sections III and IV present the proposed market model and the bidding algorithm. Sections V and VI describe case studies under price-taker and price- inﬂuencer settings. Section VII concludes this paper. II. L ITERATURE REVIEW A. Energy Storage Market Models Independent system operators and regional transmission organizations (ISOs RTOs) across North America are im- plementing new market rules to reduce barriers to energy storage participation, facilitated by FERC Order 841 13
__label__energy	1 Nitride - based interfacial layers for monolithic tandem integration of new solar energy materials on Si : The case of CZTS Filipe Martinho 1 , , , Alireza Hajijafarassar 2, , , Simón Lopez - Marino 2 , Moises Espíndola - Rodríguez 3 , Sara Engberg 1 , Mungunshagai Gansukh 1 , Fredrik Stulen 4 , Sigbjørn Grini 4 , Stela Canulescu 1 , , Eugen Stamate 2 , Andrea Crovetto 5 , Lasse Vines 4 , Jørgen Schou 1 , Ole Hansen 2 1 Department of Photonics Engineering, Technical Universit y of Denmark, DK - 4000 Roskilde, Denmark. 2 DTU Nanolab, Technical University of Denmark, DK - 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark 3 DTU Energy, Technical University of Denmark, DK - 4000 Roskilde, Denmark. 4 Department of Physics, University of Oslo, 037 1 Oslo, Norway 5 DTU Physics, Technical University of Denmark, DK - 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. Corresponding Author Email: filim fotonik.dtu.dk (Filipe Martinho), alhaj dtu.dk ( Alireza Hajijafarassar), stec fotonik.dtu.dk (Stela Canulescu) - These authors contributed equally to this work 2 Keywords: tandem, kesterite, TOPCon, photovoltaics, TiN A bstract The monolithic tandem integration of third - generation solar energy materials on silicon holds great promise for photoelectrochemistry and photovoltaics . However, this can be challenging when it involves high - tempe rature reactive processes , which would risk damaging the Si bottom cell. One such case is the high - temperature sulfurization selenization in t hin film chalcogenide solar cells , of which the kesterite Cu 2 ZnSnS 4 (CZTS) is an example . Here, by using very thin ( 10 nm) TiN - based diffusion barrier s at the interface, with different composition and properties, we demonstrate on a device level that the protection of the Si bottom cell is largely dependent on the barrier layer engineering. S everal monolithic CZTS Si tandem solar cell s with open - circui t voltage s ( V oc ) up to 1 .0 6 V and efficiencies up to 3.9 are achieved, indicating a performance comparable to conventional interfacial layers based on transpare nt conductive oxides , and point ing to a promising alternative design in solar energy conversion devices . Introduction The prospect of fabricating a monolithically integrated two - terminal (MI - 2T) tandem device for solar energy conversion has attracted considerable interest , due to t he possibility of higher conversion efficiencies and to inherent functional advantages in the fields of both photovoltaics and photoelectrochemistry . 1 In photovolta ics, a MI - 2T tandem solar cell minimizes the number of processing steps and interconnections of 2T tandem configurations , making it the most suitable configuration for large - scale industrialization , in particular when leveraging the 3 currently existing technology for crystalline Si (c - Si). 2 As a result, research for new materials as partner with Si is ongoing , along with new tandem design concepts. Regarding the latter, we have recently proposed the use of a thermally resilient Tunnel Oxide Passivated Co ntact (TOPCon) Si cell structure in combination with nitride - based diffusion barriers for the monolithic integration of materials synthesized under e xtreme conditions, such as high - temperature sulfurization of the thin - film chalcogenide Cu 2 ZnSnS 4 (CZTS) . 3 In order to achieve functional CZTS Si monolithic devices, it has been suggested that strategies for protecting the bottom Si cell need to be developed. 3 5 In this work , we approach this problem through a comparative study of CZTS Si tandem cells fabricated using three different types of TiN - based diffusion barrier layers . For the first and second, we use atomic layer deposition (ALD) to produce 5 and 10 nm TiN barrier layer s , and a 10 nm TiO x N y barrier layer . The differenc e in oxygen content was achieved by running the TiN ALD recipe without prior chamber passivation (i.e. a sequence of dummy TiN depositions) , thereby allowing a higher oxygen background level. We have previously demonstrated that this procedure increases the transparency of the TiN layer and le a d s to a promising diffusion barrier quality . 3 Furthermore, metallization studies on Si have revealed that different oxygen contents of TiN films can result in significant changes in the barrier performance against the diffusion of Cu and Al . 6 8 For the third barrier, we use a sputtered TiN layer modified by an intermediate Al layer, in a configuration TiN (5 nm) Al (2 nm) TiN (5 nm). This configuration is known to improve the barrier resilience against Cu diffusion when a pre - annealing in air is used to segregate Al to the TiN grain boundaries . Due to the air annealing, Al 2 O 3 stuffs the grain boundaries, reducing the grain boundary diffusion through the columnar structure of thin TiN films. 9 4 Through this work , it is shown on a device level how the different barrier layers tested achieve different degrees of success in regards to the compromise between diffusion barrier quality, optical transparency and electrical interconnection between top and bottom cell. As a result, CZTS Si solar cell s with efficienc ies up to 3 .9 and V oc up to 1.06 V are achieved . Notably, t he CZTS Si tandem cell performance obtained in this work is comparable to that obtained using conventional interface layers based on trans parent conduc tive oxides (TCOs) 4 , suggesting that this diffusion barrier approach could be a promising alternative tandem device configuration . If successful, one potential advantage of this approach is the possibility of tuning the barrier layer properties according t o the top cell material and synthesis conditions, in order to explore the monolithic integration of new materials on Si . Results and Discussion The effectiveness of the three TiN - based interfacial layer s was evaluated by a combination of measurements of the effective minority carrier lifetime on the bottom Si cell (hereafter referred to as
__label__energy	1 Italy 100 Renewable: A Suitable Energy Transition Roadmap Francesco Meneguzzo,a Rosaria Ciriminna,b Lorenzo Albanese,b Mario Pagliarob aIstituto di Biometeorologia, CNR, via G. Caproni 8, 45045 Firenze, Italy; bIstituto per lo Studio dei Materiali Nanostrutturati, CNR, via Ugo La Malfa 153, 90146 Palermo, Italy Abstract We outline a realistic energy transition roadmap for Italy, in which the whole energy demand is met by electricity generated by low cost renewable energy technologies, namely solar photovoltaic, wind and hydroelectric power. We assess the amount of extra power and storage capacity to be installed along with costs, return on investment and payback time. Based on cost, renewable nature and scalability, storage in energy dense polysaccharides enzymatically synthesized from carbon dioxide, water and surplus electricity is proposed to meet the significant storage requirements. Keywords: Solar energy; Italy; energy transition; 100 renewable; storage Corresponding authors Dr. F. Meneguzzo Istituto di Biometeorologia, CNR via G. Caproni 8 45045 Firenze (Italy) E-mail: francesco.meneguzzo cnr.it Dr. M. Pagliaro Istituto per lo Studio dei Materiali Nanostrutturati, CNR via U. La Malfa 153 90146 Palermo PA (Italy) E-mail: mario.pagliaro cnr.it 2 1 Introduction The dramatic increase of renewable energy generation across the world which occurred in the last decade has been so significant and rapid that, for short periods of time, the electricity demand of whole industrial countries has been temporarily met by means of renewable energy, notably wind, hydro and photovoltaic power. For instance, as of May 15, 2016 (a Sunday) at 2 pm local time when demand in Germany was 45.8 GW renewable energies covered around 82 of power demand.1 Since about 2008, scholars,2 energy analysts3 and environmental groups4 started to investigate the feasibility of a full transition from fossil to renewable energy. The most radical energy transition scenario was likely proposed by Jacobson and Delucchi in 2009 by investigating the feasibility of transitioning entire countries by 2030 to energy systems powered exclusively by wind, water and sunlight.5 The team calculated the number of onshore and offshore wind, photovoltaic (PV, on rooftops and utility scale), concentrated solar power (CSP), geothermal power, tidal and wave power, and existing hydroelectric generators needed to power each country based on the 2050 power demand after all energy end uses (namely electricity, heating and cooling, and transport) have been electrified. In detail, to supply the world with 100 renewable energy (electricity and electrolytic hydrogen) would require 3.8 million 5-MW wind turbines, 40,000 300-MW central solar plants, 40,000 300-MW solar PV plants, 1.7 billion 3-kW rooftop PV installations, 5,350 100-MW geothermal plants, 270 new 1.3-GW hydro stations, 720,000 0.75-MW wave devices, and 490,000 1-MW tidal turbines. Smil has remarked the scope of such a transition noting that, according to this scenario, in just fifteen years the overall installed capacities would have to increase 30-fold for wind, 100-fold for geothermal power and 500-fold for tidal power, with 40,000 new large (300 MW) PV plants and nearly 50,000 new CSP plants, as well as more than 700,000 wave-conversion projects.6 3 For decades, critics of renewable energy lamented their unsustainably high cost.7 Since the early 2000s, however, PV8 and wind9 energy are experiencing a largely unexpected global growth (178 GW of solar PV and 433 GW of wind power installed across the world by 2015), which has led the cost of clean electricity to such low levels to go below that of electricity obtained by burning coal ( 2.3c kWh in a in an auction by Abu Dhabi for a 350MW solar plant as of September 2016).10 A similar trend has occurred for the commonly neglected solar thermal technology, with solar heating contribution in meeting global energy demand second only to wind power among renewable energy sources (341 TWh of energy supplied in 2014 mainly as hot water vs 200 TWh of electricity supplied by PV modules across the world).11 Critics of renewable energy today preferably advocate the much lower quality 12 of renewable energy whose intermittent nature would pose insurmountable economic problems to the grid reliability. For example, while convening that it would be technically possible to meet total electricity demand from renewable energy sources, Trainer argues that this would be unaffordable due to the amount of redundant plants needed to cope with intermittency.13 However, wind and solar energy complement each other on intraday and seasonal scales (continental wind energy tends to peak at night, solar during the day, while the wind blows during winter and stormy days when solar modules produce little electricity). The higher the number of wind turbines and solar panels connected to the grid, and the more geographically distributed across a territory, the less volatile is the combined output of all individual generators, smoothing out renewable energy fluctuations on a second-by-second basis.14 Neither Germany, Spain nor Italy, for example, faced particular grid problems when a large amount of solar PV and wind power was installed in the 2005-2015 decade. In this study, we evaluate the full transition of Italy to renewable energy by the year 2050. We adopt a realistic approach, which starts from the very awareness that 4 production, installation, and maintenance of wind turbines and PV modules remains critically dependent on specific fossil energies ;15 while so far the fastest historical sector-specific energy transitions observed was 30 years, though energy transitions involving all sectors have taken much longer.16 The outcomes of this work will be useful to policy makers and energy stakeholders called by energy and environmental urgencies to accelerate the transition to renewable energy. 5 2 Current scenario The set of data and their respective sources listed in Table 1 include the relevant information about the Italian energy system. Table 1. Italy s energy datasets and sources Dataset Period and frequency Unit Source Energy consumption by sourcea 1965-2015 Annual MTOE BP17 Power capacity by source (excl. hydroelectric) Hydroelectric capacity by type 1999-2015 Annual MW GSE18 Electricity consumption 2014-2015 Hourly TWh Terna19 Intermittent generation from RES, by source 2014-2015 Hourly TWh Terna20 Oil consumption for transportation 2014-2015 Monthly MTOE MISE21 aThe electricity consumption in units of TWh is converted into
__label__nonenergy	Additionally, We examine psychological factors in human-computer interaction and user experience design for digital interfaces.
__label__energy	An Ontological Metamodel for Cyber-Physical System Safety, Security, and Resilience Coengineering Georgios Bakirtzis Tim Sherburne Stephen Adams Barry M. Horowitz Peter A. Beling Cody H. Fleming Abstract System complexity has become ubiquitous in the design, assessment, and implementation of practical and useful cyber-physical systems. This increased complexity is impacting the management of models necessary for designing cyber-physicalsystemsthatareabletotakeintoaccountanumberof -ilities ,suchthattheyaresafeandsecureand ultimatelyresilienttodisruptionofservice.Weproposeanontologicalmetamodelforsystemdesignthataugmentsan alreadyexistingindustrymetamodeltocapturetherelationshipsbetweenvariousmodelelementsandsafety,security, and resilient considerations. Employing this metamodel leads to more cohesive and structured modeling eﬀorts with anoverallincreaseinscalability,usability,anduniﬁcationofalreadyexistingmodels.Inturn,thisleadstoamission- oriented perspective in designing security defenses and resilience mechanisms to combat undesirable behaviors. We illustratethismetamodelinanopen-sourceGraphQLimplementation,whichcaninterfacewithanumberofmodeling languages. We support our proposed metamodel with a detailed demonstration using an oil and gas pipeline model. 1 Introduction Cyber-physicalsystems(CPS)integratediversesoftware,ﬁrmware,andhardwaretocontroltheoperationofthephys- icalcomponentsofthesystembasedonanalysisofsensordata.Theselargelydistributedsystemshavealreadysparked innovationinanumberofsectors,suchasagriculture,powerdistribution,searchandrescue,andweaponry.Intheface of rapid innovation, it is important to understand and address the new challenges that arise from the deployment of CPS in environments where they are subject to cyber attacks. In particular, a characteristic of CPS is that when they fail, either because of an intrinsic fault or a security violation, they can transition to a hazardous state and, therefore, can cause accidents or otherwise unacceptable losses. In the domain of CPS, therefore, cybersecurity and safety are intertwined 49 . However, safety and security are often viewed disjointly in a way that considers security mitigations withoutregardtosafetylosses 6 .Theclassicalapproachtosecurityinvolvesveriﬁcationofcomponentsandthecon- struction of security barriers. The most eﬀective approaches to safety, by contrast, center on modeling losses in terms of control actions with respect to states that may reﬂect the condition of many components 39 . We aim to combine elements from the security and safety parardims to develop models to support the design of resilience solutions that can mitigate against unacceptable losses. Resilience is a proactive notion where in response to anomalies the system has a way to maintain operation, even in some degraded form 30 . The application of resilience concepts to safety and security design has the potential to transform our safety considerations and security defenses from a prescriptive, perimeter-based approach to one that uses adaptable and dynamic design patterns that take into account the intended functionsofthesystem.Suchatransformationcanbeachievedonlyifweareabletounifysafety,security,andresilience models. G.Bakirtzis,T.Sherburne,S.Adams,B.M.Horowitz,P.A.Beling,andC.H.FlemingarewiththeUniversityofVirginia.Correspondingauthor: bakirtzis virginia.edu 1arXiv:2006.05304v1 cs.SE 9 Jun 2020 The intrinsic complexity of CPS creates diﬃculties regarding how to best account for and model the intertwined natureofsafety,security,andresilience 36 .Modelingsafetyrequiresthinkingintermsofmisbehaviors,unacceptable losses,andhazardousstates.Modelingsecurityrequiresthinkingintermsofconﬁdentiality,integrity,andavailability. Modeling resilience requires thinking in terms of redundant architectures, recovery from a death state, and restricting the expected service of the system to disallow possible violations. Safety, security, and resilience have signiﬁcant overlapinCPSapplications.Forexample,bothasecurityviolationandasafetyrelatedcomponentfailurecouldcause an unsafe operator control action, resulting in a system response that reduces the dependability of the overall system. While this example of CPS behavior clearly shows that security and safety are coupled, the corresponding model representationsareoftendecoupledanddisparate.Tocombatthisdisjointtreatmentofsafety,security,andresilience, modeling eﬀorts must be structured in terms that not only address all three qualities but also are able to relate their results to each other. Structured modeling eﬀorts are often captured in a metamodel, which deﬁnes the typesandrelationships of infor- mationallowedinamodelofasystem.Diﬀerentmetamodelsapplytodiﬀerentapplications,forexample,ametamodel for geologic maps is not going to be the same as the metamodel for a software application. A strict metamodel would enforcethetypesandrelationshipsbutoftenmetamodelsareusedtoprovideastructuredguidanceformodelcreation. If automated, such a metamodel can be used to assist systems designers the same way that a sophisticated text editor doesforprogrammers.Inpractice,thiscapabilityisstilllackinginmodelingtools,predominantlybecausemetamodels arenotdevelopedforaparticularapplicationand,therefore,cannotenforcestrictrulestousersthathaveadiversesetof metamodelrequirements.Theontologicalstudyofmetamodelsaugmentsthemwithareﬁnementoftypes.Ontologies deﬁne what entities might exist in a particular domain application, how they might be grouped in categories, and how they relate but also can be decomposed within a hierarchy of types. The metamodel, then, is a representation of this ontology, often represented in a set of graphs. Ontologiesandmetamodelscanbeparticularlyusefulinthedesignofsafety-criticalCPS.Foranydesignsolution, the multitude of diverse but equally important system representations requires management of their corresponding models and relationships among them. This is challenging when attempting to manage some of the most concerning systemqualityattributes,suchassafetyandsecurity,asearlyaspossibleinthesystemslifecycle.Usageofmodelsfor thispurposecanbeapproachedinanumberofwaystotransitionfromassuringsafety,security,andresiliencebytrial and error to addressing them early through the use of models. While other -ilities 59 , for example dependability, survivability,andreliabilityhavebeenaddressedthroughmodels,safety,securityandresiliencehavenotbeenaddressed asoneproblem.However,inCPSthesethreequalitiesareperhapsthemostimportantfortheeventualdeploymentand use of these systems. Toachievethistransitionitrequiresustolearn(butavoidrepeating)fromhighlyresilientsystemsbuiltovertime, such as those developed with a ﬂy ﬁx ﬂy approach in the United States Federal Aviation Administration s air traﬃc controlsystem.Inthatcase,thesystemmodiﬁesaircraftﬂightrulesdependingonpilotvisibilitythroughuseofinstru- ment ﬂight rules and visual ﬂight rules, thereby, as necessary, reducing airport capacity while increasing safety. But this raises the question about how should systems engineers model -ilities of the system, which are interconnected andcannotbeexaminedinisolation,beforehavingexperiencedthemduringdeployment?Asaspeciﬁcexample,how would we model the interconnection of a safety incident that was initiated by a security violation in the case of CPS? And further, how would one design resilience and relate such resilience solutions to losses and their prevention to assure the proper operation of complex CPS systems during deployment? Solutions to parts of these questions have been proposed in each individual ﬁeld of safety, security, and resilience but without recognizing the problems that arise when these metrics interact with each other. For example, in the ﬁeld ofsafety,Levesonhasdevelopedsystems-theoreticaccidentmodelandprocess(STAMP) 38 ,whichexaminessafety incidents in terms of hierarchical control and unacceptable losses. In the intersection of security and resilience there is System Aware 32, 33 and its evolution Mission Aware 13, 14 , which see mitigation in terms of resilient modes 2 inadditiontotraditionalsecuritydefenses.Finally,thegeneralﬁeldofmodel-basedsystemsengineering(MBSE)has producedbothmethodsandtoolsinassessingthesafetyandsecuritypostureofsystemdesignsandistheparadigmin whichthemajorityofsystemmodelsmustconformto.Anexampleofafundamentalsystemsengineeringmetamodel is the model openly published by Vitech Corporation in support of the company s modeling software 53 . Oneunifyingansweristocreatepragmaticontologiesbasedontheabovecapabilitiesdevelopedwithineachindi- vidualﬁeld,whichwillallowforaholisticexaminationofthosequalitiesinrelationtothesystemmodel.Crucially,in thispaperweextendanalreadyexistingandoftenusedsystemsengineeringmetamodeltoaddresssafety,security,and resilience. For modeling purposes, this ontology is often codiﬁed in metamodels. Previous works study the theory of ontologiesextensivelyforthepurposeofunderstandingthematameta-metalevel 35,44,46,47 .However,thereisa gapincreatingdomainspeciﬁcontologiesandmetamodels;especiallyforthemodelingofCPS.Creatinganontology intheﬁeldofCPSshouldtakeintoaccountboththesystemanditsassociated -ilities withaparticularfocusonsafety, security,andresilience.Assuranceofthesethree -ilities combatsundesirablebehaviorsduringdeploymentbyfocus- ing the design eﬀort both on the functional and non-functional requirements of the system under design. Therefore, a concreteimplementationofanontologicalmetamodelisonewayforwardinmulti-paradigmmodelingforCPS,which is a necessity to manage the intrinsic complexity of these systems 58 . For these reasons, we propose the use of an ontological metamodel that can be applied to the diﬀering modeling views necessary to design CPS. We assert that this metamodel supports the structuring of modeling eﬀorts. Addition- ally,thismetamodelcanhelpusersseeinteroperabilitybetweenvariousmodelsandassessmentmethodologies,which has the potential of documenting both formal and informal requirements in one model 23 and ultimately achieve model federation. There are signiﬁcant design risks if we permit reliability, safety, and security engineers to work in isolation when designing highly automated CPS. Instead, such attributes must be examined together throughout life- cycle such that appropriate tradeoﬀs and design decisions can also be made throughout the
__label__nonenergy	This study explores the relationship between nutrition and cognitive performance in elderly populations and aging research.
__label__energy	1 Abstract - The market for battery storage systems (BSS) has been growing rapidly for years and will multiply in the future . This fast growth leads to a lack of information regarding current developments. With this extension of our previous works , we contribute key figures for model parametrization and political decision -making and depict the market development in Germany, one of the leadin g storage markets worldwide . In empirical analyses , we evaluate and combine all major public databases on national stationary and mobile storage as well as our data bases from subsidy programs and extend the insights by literature research and bilateral industry exchange . In comparison to 2021 , the market for home storage systems (HSS) grew by 5 2 in terms of battery energy in 2022 and is by far the largest stationary storage market in Germany. We estimate that abo ut 220,000 HSS (1. 9 GWh 1.2 GW) were installed solely in 2022 . The emerging market for industrial storage systems (ISS) grew by 24 in 202 2, with a total of 1,200 ISS (0.08 GWh 0.0 4 GW) installed. The market for large -scale storage systems (LSS) increased strongly by 910 with 47 LSS (0. 47 GWh 0.43 GW) commissioned. The electric vehicle (EV) market grew with 693,000 new EV ( 27 GWh 43 GW (DC) 4.5 GW (AC) ) by 34 in terms of battery energy. The number of EV per charging point grew from 9 in 201 7 to 23 in 202 2. System BSS prices increased significantly in 2022 and were estimated at 1,200 kWh for HSS . LSS prices ranged on average from 310 kWh to 465 kWh . In comparison , if the 2022 BEV prices for the whole vehicle are simply divided by the ir battery energy, the mean specific BEV system prices range from 800 kWh for medium to 1,240 kWh for luxury cars. In total, we estimate that over 650,000 stationary BSS with a battery energy of 7.0 GWh with an inverter power of 4.3 GW and 1,878,000 EV with a battery energy of 65 GWh and a DC charging power of 91 GW (12 GW AC) were operated in Germany by the end of 202 2. The cumulative battery energy of about 72 GWh is therefore nearly twice the 39 GWh of nationally installed pumped hydro storage demonstrating the enormous flexibility potential of battery storage for the energy system. Index Terms battery storage, charging infrastructure, electric vehicles, e nergy storage , market development , prices I. INTRODUCTION This paper is an update of our existing peer-reviewed works 1 4 and extends large parts of the previous analyses. In current forecasts on the development of the global battery market, everyone agrees: it is going steeply upwards. Nevertheless, the estimates differ significantly from each other and change over time , which is due to different future scenarios , changing regulatory, geopolitical circumstances, and a lack of trans parently accessible information as a study on the European storage market explicitly points out 5 . To understand the market dynamic s, we can have a look at the past: A 2017 study predicted the cumulative stationary battery world installations for the year 2030 to range between aroun d 100 GWh and 420 GWh depending on the scenario 6 . Another 2017 study estimated The development of batt ery storage systems in Germany: A market review (status 2023 ) Jan Figgenera,b,c,d , Christopher Hechta,b,c, David Haberschusza,b,c,d, Jakob Borsa,b, Kai Gerd Spreuera,b, Kai-Philipp Kairiesd, Peter Stenzele, and Dirk Uwe Sauer a,b,c,d,f a Institute for Power Electronics and Electrical Drives (ISEA), RWTH Aachen University , Germany b Institute for Power Generation and Storage Systems (PGS), E.ON Energy Research Center (E.ON ERC) , RWTH Aachen University , Germany c Juelich Aachen Research Alliance, JARA -Energy, Germany d ACCURE Battery Intelligence GmbH , Germany e TH Köln, Cologne Institu te for Renewable Energy (CIRE) , Germany f Helmholtz Institute Münster (HI MS), IEK-12, Forschungszentrum J ülich, Germany Corresponding author at Institute for Power Electronics and Electrical Drives (ISEA) Mathieustraße 10 , 52074 Aachen, Germany Mail: jan.figgener rwth -aachen.de E-Mail address: jan.figgener isea.rwth -aachen.de This preprint was originally uploaded o n arxiv (https: doi.org 10.48550 arXiv.2203.06762 ) under the license CC-BY 4.0 Table 1: Abbreviations sorted alphabetically. Abbreviation Description aFFR Automatic frequency restoration reserve ADAC General German Automobile Club BEV Battery electric vehicle BSS Battery storage system CP Charging point (for electric vehicles) CS Charging station (for electric vehicles) DB Database EPR Energy -to-power (ratio) EV Electric vehicle FCP Fast charging point ( for electric vehicles) FCR Frequency containment reserve FMTA (German) Federal Motor Transport Authority FNA (German) Federal Network Agency HSS Home storage system ISEA Institute for Power Electronics and Electrical Drives ISS Industrial storage systems LSS Large -scale storage system PHEV Plug -in hybrid electric vehicle PV Photovoltaic SOC State -of-charge TSO Transmission system operator 2 cumulative installations of 305 GWh for 2030 7 . Onl y a few years later, in 2022, they updated their estimate by a factor of four to 1,194 GWh as the storage world is in flux 8 . According to their estimat e, the countries with the most battery installations will be the United States , China, Japan, India, Germany, United Kingdom , Australia, and South Korea among others 8 . In order to contribute to transparency, we evaluate the c urrent developments for Germany while many ke y figures like prices, use cases , and system design are also valid for larger parts of the world. There are already many publications on the market development of battery storage in the literature . According to our classification in 1 , these can be divided into the three areas of (1) insti tutional publications, (2) peer -reviewed publications, a nd (3) consultant publications. (1) The insti tutional publications are often from renowned organizations such as IRENA 6 , the European Commission 5 , or the IEA 9 . The reports, however, cover larger geographical areas such
__label__energy	Policy-relevance of a Model Inter-comparison: Switzerland in the European Energy Transition Ambra Van Liedekerkea, Blazhe Gjorgieva, , Jonas Savelsbergb, Xin Wenc, J erˆome Dujardind,e, Ali Darudif, Jan-Philipp Sassec, Evelina Trutnevytec, Michael Lehningd,e, Giovanni Sansavinia, aReliability and Risk Engineering Laboratory, Institute of Energy and Process Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland bEnergy Science Center, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland cRenewable Energy Systems, Institute for Environmental Sciences, Section of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland dSchool of Architecture, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland eWSL Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research, SLF Davos, Davos, Switzerland fZHAW, Zurich, Switzerland Abstract The energy transition is reshaping electricity systems, bringing new challenges, and emphasizing the need for strategic planning. Energy policies play a crucial role in guiding this transition. However, assessing their impacts often requires robust modeling in- volving multiple models and going beyond a single country s scope, analyzing international interactions. In this study, we examine three Swiss energy policies, analyzing their impacts on both the national energy system and the cross-border electricity flows. We use a model inter-comparison approach with four electricity system models to explore scenarios involving Swiss renewable gener- ation targets, the Swiss market integration, and the Swiss winter import limitations, in the context of various European electricity developments. The results indicate that a renewable generation target leads to a reduction in net imports and electricity prices. Ad- ditionally, reduced market integration impacts both Swiss and European energy transitions by limiting trade benefits, underutilizing Variable Renewable Energy Sources (VRES), and increasing electricity supply costs. Lastly, we observe that limiting Swiss winter imports adversely a ffects electricity trading, driving up both supply costs and electricity prices. Keywords: Energy transition, Market integration, Model inter-comparison, Capacity expansion, Policy relevance 1. Introduction The energy transition is transforming our electricity sys- tems 1 . This is reflected in the evolving generation mix and the increasing electrification of the heating and transportation sectors 2 . This brings rising challenges which require proper planning and resource allocation to ensure the reliability of the power supply in the future 3 . Therefore, the scientific com- munity is placing significant e fforts in developing energy sys- tem models to better understand these challenges and to inform decision-makers 4 . However, modelers face hurdles in the se- lection of appropriate modeling approaches, the lack of data, the diversity of exogenous inputs, and their related uncertain- ties. Hence, the obtained modeling results often di ffer signifi- cantly across models and frameworks 5 , limiting their applica- bility in obtaining policy-relevant findings 6 . This motivates the research on model inter-comparisons comparing models in their natural environments 7 , such that a strict alignment on modeling assumptions and inputs is not required, but compara- bility is assured by harmonizing selected scenarios and key pa- rameters 8 . Such an approach increases the robustness of the Corresponding author. Email addresses: gblazhe ethz.ch (Blazhe Gjorgiev), sansavig ethz.ch (Giovanni Sansavini)policy-relevant results by identifying result consensus across models and scenarios 9, 10 . Energy and electricity system model inter-comparisons are increasingly performed. A review of 19 studies between 2011 and 2018 with various scenarios for Switzerland in 2035 is con- ducted in 11 . The analysis highlights that most models show a dependence on fossil fuel-based generation and net electric- ity imports, contrary to what the general public expects. In a recent study, the authors compare three spatially resolved elec- tricity system models to gain insights into the role of renewables in the Swiss energy transition in 2035 7, 12 . In general, dis- agreements among these model results exist for valid reasons; however, they find Photovoltaic (PV) is a common denomi- nator in the future generation mix. Similarly, 13 compares six energy and electricity system models with di fferent spatial and temporal resolutions focusing on Switzerland in 2050. Al- though the models mostly agree on PV as the driver of the en- ergy transition, some models and scenarios obtain higher par- ticipation of wind in the supply mix. In 14 , the authors com- pare four electricity system models for Germany, focusing on investment decisions and operational behavior in 2030. For this purpose, they harmonize scenario data and show that the result differences mainly depend on the modeling approach. Three electricity system models focusing on electrification and load shifting with electric vehicle batteries and heat pumps are com- Preprint submitted to arXiv December 18, 2024arXiv:2412.12964v1 physics.soc-ph 17 Dec 2024 pared to study Germany s generation adequacy in 2030 15 . The study results show discrepancies in load shifting, which are directly attributed to model features. In 16 , the authors compare six electricity models with country-level aggregation for central Europe utilizing a highly simplified test case. They identify expansion deviations, which can be related to specific modeling di fferences. Similarly, 10 compares five electricity models for Europe with high spatial aggregation. The paper ar- gues that a multitude of modeling approaches enable the eval- uation of result variance because of model uncertainty. The Energy Modeling Forum (EMF) has conducted 37 model inter-comparisons on topics such as macroeconomic and cli- mate change impacts, global energy modeling, electricity and fuel markets, and electric load forecasting 17 . In general, the literature mainly focuses on defining a comparison methodol- ogy and understanding what drives result commonalities and differences, while little or no focus is given to policy-relevant impacts. The literature agrees that model inter-comparisons are pow- erful methods for policy-relevant studies 6, 18 . The main ad- vantage lies in the analysis of commonalities and di fferences in results derived from various frameworks, models, assump- tions, and case studies 19 . The theoretical groundwork for inter-comparisons applied to policy questions is laid out in 20 . This work reviews significant policy instruments for renew- able energy integration and explores models and decision sup- port tools developed for energy policy analysis. Similarly, 21 evaluates model suitability for specific policy questions, and 22 investigates how di
__label__nonenergy	We present computational methods for protein folding prediction and molecular dynamics simulations in biochemistry.
__label__nonenergy	The research examines financial market dynamics and algorithmic trading strategies in volatile economic conditions.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate novel materials for biomedical applications including drug delivery and tissue engineering in medical devices.
__label__nonenergy	This paper discusses artificial intelligence applications in healthcare diagnostics and medical imaging analysis.
__label__nonenergy	We analyze the impact of climate change on biodiversity in tropical rainforest ecosystems and conservation strategies.
__label__nonenergy	This study explores molecular genetics and genomic sequencing technologies for personalized medicine applications.
__label__nonenergy	We investigate advanced materials science for aerospace applications and structural engineering in extreme conditions.
__label__energy	Towards a Sustainable Microgrid on Alderney Island Using a Python-based Energy Planning Tool Shahab Dehghan1 , Agnes M Nakiganda1, James Lancaster2, Petros Aristidou1,3 1School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK 2Alderney Electricity Ltd, Alderney, Channel Islands 3Department of Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering Informatics, Cyprus University of Technology, Cyprus E-mail: s.dehghan leeds.ac.uk Keywords: Battery Storage, Open-Source Tool, Sustainable Microgrid Planning, Uncertainty. Abstract In remote or islanded communities, the use of microgrids (MGs) is necessary to ensure electriﬁcation and resilience of supply. However, even in small-scale systems, it is computationally and mathematically challenging to design low-cost, optimal, sus- tainable solutions taking into consideration all the uncertainties of load demands and power generations from renewable energy sources (RESs). This paper uses the open-source Python-based Energy Planning (PyEPLAN) tool, developed for the design of sustainable MGs in remote areas, on the Alderney island, the 3rdlargest of the Channel Islands with a population of about 2000 people. A two-stage stochastic model is used to optimally invest in battery storage, solar power, and wind power units. Moreover, the AC power ﬂow equations are modelled by a linearised version of the DistFlow model in PyEPLAN, where the investment variables are here-and-now decisions and not a function of uncertain parameters while the operation variables are wait-and-see decisions and a function of uncertain parameters. The k-means clustering technique is used to generate a set of best (risk-seeker), nominal (risk-neutral), and worst (risk-averse) scenarios capturing the uncertainty spectrum using the yearly historical patterns of load demands and solar wind power generations. The proposed investment planning tool is a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) model and is coded with Pyomo in PyEPLAN. Nomenclature Indices n Index of nodes where n0andn00stand for nodes before and after node n, respectively. d Index of load demands. g Index of generation units. o Index of representative days (scenarios). t Index of time periods. Parameters eini b Initial stored energy of battery unit b(kW). emax b Maximum stored energy of battery unit b(kW). emin b Minimum stored energy of battery unit b(kW). pcd Penalty cost of load demand curtailment ( kWh). pcr Penalty cost of RES power generation curtailment ( kWh). fd Power factor of load demand d. icb Annualised investment cost of battery unit b( ). icg Annualised investment cost of generation unit g( ). mcgMarginal cost of generation unit g( kWh). pmax;c d bMaximum charging discharging power of battery unit b (kW). pdto Load demand dat hourtin representative day o ( kWh). pmax n0nMaximum active power ﬂow from node n0to noden (kW). This work is supported by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) under Grant EP R030243 1.pmaxg Maximum active power of generation unit g(kW). pmax gto Maximum power generation of generation unit gat hour tin representative day o(kW). qmax b Maximum reactive power of battery unit b(kV Ar). qmin b Minimum reactive power of battery unit b(kV Ar). qmax n0nMaximum reactive power ﬂow from node n0to noden (kV Ar). qmaxg Maximum reactive power of generation unit g(kV Ar). qming Minimum reactive power of generation unit g(kV Ar). rn0nResistance of the line connecting nodes (n0;n)(ohm). vmaxMaximum permitted voltage magnitude (V). vminMinimum permitted voltage magnitude (V). xn0nReactance of the line connecting nodes (n0;n)(ohm). c d b Reactance of the line connecting nodes (n0;n)(ohm). Sets BSet of battery units where Bnindicates set of battery units connected to node n. NSet of nodes where Nnindicates set of nodes after and connected to node n. DSet of load demands where Dnindicates set of load demands connected to node n. LSet of distribution lines connecting nodes. MSet of micro-turbine diesel units where Mnindicates set of micro-turbine diesel generators connected to node n. RSet of RES units where Rnindicates set of RES units connected to node n. TSet of hours. 1arXiv:2007.15165v1 math.OC 30 Jul 2020 Variables pc d bto Active charging discharging power of battery unit bat hourtin representative day o(kW). pn0ntoActive power ﬂow from node n0to nodenat hourtin representative day o(kW). pgto Active power generation of generation unit gat hourt in representative day o(kW). qbto Reactive power of battery unit bat hourtin representa- tive dayo(kW). qn0ntoReactive power ﬂow from node n0to nodenat hourtin representative day o(kV Ar). qgto Reactive power generation of generator gat hourtin representative day o(kV Ar). vnto V oltage magnitude of node nat hourtin representative dayo(V). ydto Curtailment status of load demand dat hourtin repre- sentative day o(i.e., 1 0: curtailed not-curtailed). zb Investment status of battery unit b(i.e., 1 0: built non- built). zg Investment status of RES unit g(i.e., 1 0: built non- built). 1 Introduction Alderney island with an area of 3 square miles runs a closed complex energy system that entirely relies on imported fuel oils for electricity, heating, and transportation. Major economic activities on the island include e-trade, ecotourism, small busi- nesses, health care services. The only energy supplier on the island is Alderney Electricity Limited (AEL) 1 , providing for both electric and heating loads. AEL is responsible for the importation and distribution of different fuels, including kerosene and transport fuels, as well as the generation and dis- tribution of electricity. The company manages both the 11kV primary distribution network, consisting of 21substations, as well as the 415V secondary distribution network. AEL starts with the higher voltage to account for cable losses ensuring the voltage is still in spec. by the time it gets where it is going. Networks mainly comprise underground cables, there are a small number of overheads which are being progressively replaced. Electric power on Alderney island is centrally gen- erated by 8 450kV A diesel generators and supplied through an extensive network consisting of underground cables. Hence, the main aim of this paper is to create a sustainable microgrid (MG) on Alderney island, which obviates the reliance of AEL on only fossil fuels. 1.1 Literature Review and Contributions MG is a low-voltage electrical network, including diverse controllable and uncontrollable producers, consumers, and pro- sumers, that can be operated autonomously. The concept of MG has been initially introduced in the seminal
__label__energy	1 A Formal Speciﬁcation Framework for Smart Grid Components Waseem Akram, and Muaz Niazi, Senior Member, IEEE Abstract Smart grid can be considered as the next step in the evolution of power systems. It comprises of different entities and objects ranging from smart appliances, smart meters, generators, smart storages, and more. One key problem in modeling smart grid is that while currently there is a considerable focus on the practical aspects of smart grid, there are very few modeling attempts and even lesser attempts at formalization. To the best of our knowledge, among other formal methods, formal speciﬁcation has previously not been applied in the domain of smart grid. In this paper, we attempt to bridge this gap by presenting a novel approach to modeling smart grid components using a formal speciﬁcation approach. We use a state-based formal speciﬁcation language namely Z (pronounced as Zed ) since we believe Z is particularly suited for modeling smart grid components.We demonstrate the application of Z on key smart grid components. The presented formal speciﬁcation can be considered as ﬁrst steps towards modeling of smart grid using a Software Engineering formalism. It also demonstrates how complex systems, such as the smart grid, can be modeled elegantly using formal speciﬁcation. Index Terms Formal speciﬁcation, Smart grid, Complex Adaptive System I. I NTRODUCTION A smart grid can be considered as an advanced and radically evolved version of traditional power systems. The term smart in the smart grid exempliﬁes the use of bi-directional com- munication, artiﬁcial intelligence, Complex systems theory, modeling and simulation, and more, all employed with the goal of converting the legacy power grid into an advanced proactive and reactive system. At the lowest level however, the Smart grid can be considered as an integrated system made up of a variety of interacting components - ranging from smart appliances and smart storages to smart generators, Internet of Things (IoT), and beyond. Another key focus of the Smart grid is in the integration of renewable energy resources, such as, but not limited to, wind turbines and solar panels 1 . By integrating advanced communication and information systems, Smart grid components can communicate and coordinate with each other with the goal of constructing a sustainable and efﬁcient energy production system 2 for the future. As the size of smart grid increases, however, it is coupled with an increase in its intrinsic complexity 3 . Smart grid implies complexity 4 . To understand this complexity, it is necessary to ponder on the fact that, in any modern large- scale power system, each component can itself be dynamic in its very nature. As such, the states of the system, which are a function of and the result of emergent properties of the numerous interacting components, can also vary temporally. The result of what we see at the macro-level cannot thus be Corresponding author muaz.niazi ieee.orgeasily discernible as a direct function of the micro-level. This behavior can thus be considered as the outcome of numerous interactive events occurring in relation to each component - quite similar to a natural Complex Adaptive Systems (CAS) 5 . With so much complexity at hand, it is clear that modeling the smart grid certainly needs considerable number of practical examples and case studies 6 . It is also evident that developing various types of formalisms for the domain is needed. This will allow for the selection of better and more elegant solution to models - which in turn can be used to develop a better understanding of the complex domain. Essentially, modeling any system can be considered as an activity which allows for a better understanding of the system. In the smart grid domain, better modeling approaches can not only simplify system complexity but also allow for a better understanding and implementation of the system. Besides, it can also allow for ensuring a reduction in system failures. Formal methods provide facilities for the modeling of each component of any complex system 7 . It allows for developing models for each component of the system allowing for a clear focus on understanding consistency as well as semantic correctness. The behavior of each system can be analyzed and observed with the help of these formal models. A key beneﬁt to this approach is that it helps in the detection of faults and ﬂaws in the design phase of system development, thereby considerably improving system reliability. In previous studies, formal speciﬁcation framework has been successfully applied for the mathematical modeling of different CAS ranging across various domains. Some key examples of such work includes a formal speciﬁcation used for the modeling of AIDS spread using agent-based modeling 8 . Likewise, it has been developed for modeling the progression of researchers in their domain 9 , and for the modeling of wireless sensor networks 10 . The use of formal speciﬁcation models for modeling CAS also include studies such as 11 , 12 . Suggestions to use formal speciﬁcation for the Smart grid have also previously been mentioned in literature 13 . Another example is the use of state machine formalism 14 . However, to the best of our knowledge, the same approach has not been applied much in the domain of the smart grid domain. It is thus clear that there is a growing need to model the key components in a smart grid by means of an elegant formal framework among other tools such as noted previously 15 . Such a prudent approach allows for a better understanding of the domain besides allowing for systems to be veriﬁed using the given speciﬁcation. In this paper, we present ﬁrst steps towards a basic formal speciﬁcation modeling framework for smart grid components. We ﬁrst consider different types of entities and then elaboratearXiv:1711.09184v1 cs.LO 25 Nov 2017 2 their detailed formal speciﬁcations. The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 provides basic concept of a formal framework and a smart grid scenario is discussed. Section 3 presents formal speciﬁcation of different entities of smart grid
