Boris Sanchez CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, Salary, and Net Worth
Boris Sanchez CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Parents, Wife, Education, Salary, and Net Worth
Ann Phlomena JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Boris Sanchez Biography and Wiki
Boris Sanchez is an American journalist currently working for CNN as the White House correspondent covering Donald Trump and his administration. He moved to Washington, D.C in 2017 and has reported on visits by world leaders, major policy decisions, and key staff departures.
Sanchez joined CNN in June 2015 working as a national correspondent based in New York. Prior to joining CNN, he worked at FOX 31 Denver where he anchored the 10 p.m newscast and also contributed coverage all over the stations’ programs’ since 2012.
Boris Sanchez Age
He was born on November 15, 1985, in Havana, Cuba, United States. Sanchez is 35 years old in 2020 and celebrates her birthday on November 15 every year.
Boris Sanchez Height
Drawing from his photos, Sanchez is tall in stature. His height is around 6 feet (Approx 1.82 m).
Sanchez’s Photo
Boris Sanchez Parents
At the moment, there is no available information in regard to Sanchez’s parents or siblings. Therefore, we do not know whether he has siblings or not. However, we will update this as soon as we have clear details.
Boris Sanchez Wife | Jennifer Piekut
Sanchez is married to his beloved wife Jeniffer Piekut. The couple tied the knot on September 17, 2016, in Truckee, California. However, there is no much available information regarding their married life. Therefore, we cannot tell whether they have any children or not.
Boris Sanchez Education
Sanchez joined Miami Dade College in 2004 where he graduated in 2006 with a degree in A.A Journalism. He later attended Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York, and graduated in 2009 with a bachelor’s degree in Broadcast Journalism and International Relations. Sanchez was an intern at Miami NBC affiliate WTVJ before working at KRCR in Redding, California as a weekend anchor.
Boris Sanchez Nationality
He is an American by nationality. Sanchez belongs to English descent.
Boris Sanchez CNN
Sanchez works for CNN as the White House correspondent covering Donald Trump and his administration. He moved to Washington, D.C in 2017 and has reported on visits by world leaders, major policy decisions, and key staff departures. Sanchez joined CNN in June 2015 working as a national correspondent based in New York and later moved to his hometown of Miami a year later. He has covered various breaking news events such as being among the first reporters on the scene at the Fort Lauderdale Airport shooting in 2017 as well as the Orlando Pulse Nightclub massacre in 2016.
His reporting throughout violent unrest and riots after the shooting of an African-American man by police in Charlotte, North Carolina in 2016, helped CNN win an Emmy R. Murrow Award for the breaking news coverage. Sanchez covered various historic natural disasters in 2016 including the wrecking earthquake in Ecuador, tragic flooding in Louisiana, and Hurricane Matthew in northern Florida. Throughout the presidential race in 2016, he traveled all over the country to speak with voters and also reported from the battleground state of Florida on Election day.
Prior to joining CNN, Sanchez worked at OX 31 Denver where he anchored the 10 p.m newscast and also contributed coverage all over the stations’ programs’ since 2012. He also anchored the breaking news coverage of the Arapahoe High School in 2013, the devastation caused by the historic floods of September 2013, and the Black Forest Fire in 2013. In addition, Sanchez broke a series of stories concerning the implementation of Amendment 64, which help to legalize the recreational use of marijuana in Colorado. His work climaxed with a 2015 Heartland Emmy Award.
Some of Sanchez’s colleagues at CNN include:
Natalie Allen – Anchor
David Culver -Anchor and Correspondent
Jeremy Diamond – Correspondent
Fredricka Whitfield – Anchor
Pamela Brown – Correspondent
Christine Romans – Anchor and Correspondent
Alexis Mcadams – Reporter
Ryan Young – Correspondent (Chicago)
Jason Carrol – Correspondent.
Sharon Collins – Anchor (Atlanta)
Kate Bennett – White House Correspondent (Washington)
Victor Blackwell – Correspondent and Anchor (Atlanta)
Kyung Lah – Senior National Correspondent (Los Angeles)
Jim Sciutto – Chief National Correspondent
Stephanie Elam – Correspondent (Los Angeles)
Matt Rivers – International Correspondent  (Mexico)
Shimon Prokupecz – Crime & Justice Correspondent (New York)
Brian Todd – Correspondent (Washington)
Kaitlan Collins – White House Correspondent (Washington)
Kristine Sorensen KDKA, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Dog, Salary, and Net Worth
Kristine Sorensen is an American journalist currently working for KDKA-TV as a reporter and anchor, anchoring the station’s news at 5 p.m and Noon. She joined the TV network in 2003 and hosted the “Pittsburgh Today Live” on KDKA for 11 years.
Facts Buddy
Boris Sanchez Salary
He is mostly known for his work as CNN’s White House Correspondent. Sanchez’s estimated salary is around $70,000 per year.
Boris Sanchez Net Worth
Having worked in the media industry for quite some time now, Sanchez has been able to accumulate a good fortune. His estimated net worth is around $2 Million.
How Tall Is Boris Sanchez Cnn
Sanchez height is around 6 feet (Approx 1.82 m).
Is Boris Sanchez Married
He is a married man. Sanchez has been married to Jennifer Piekut since September 2016.
How Old Is Boris Sanchez
Sanchez is 35 years old in 2020. He was born on November 15, 1985, in Cuba, United States.
Boris Sanchez Twitter
Kamau Bell CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, Book, Comedy, Salary, and Net Worth
Kristine Sorensen KDKA, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Dog, Salary, and Net Worth