Smart Start GPS DSM250I - Clifford Alarm
Smart Start GPS DSM250I
Clifford Alarm > Products > Smart Start > Smart Start GPS DSM250I
Free
ENQUIRE TODAY
0800 458 6008
Free Installation at home or at work
Now you can remote start, lock and unlock your car just by pushing a button on your Smartphone; using the Viper SmartStart App from Directed, the leader in vehicle Security and Remote start. The simple graphical interface gives you control over the following features of your installed Viper remote start or security with remote start system:
Lock / Arm –
Unlock / Disarm
Remote Car Starter
Trunk Release
Panic
Description
Requirements for Clifford SmartStart
Compatible Handset.
The Clifford SmartStart app – downloaded to your device.
Complete Clifford SmartStart system, or a Viper SmartStart module added to a compatible Viper remote start or security with remote start system.
Clifford SmartStart service plan.
Additional features of GPS
Smart scheduling –  monitors the temperature outside at your designated waking up time to prompt you to remote start your vehicle if the weather falls below your designated temperature
Control multiple vehicles with multiple users – ideal for families who use each other’s cars.
You can monitor your car from anywhere in the world- utilizing Google maps meaning you track the vehicle , remote start the vehicle , open / lock doors etc all from your phone.
Set speed alerts- in the event the vehicle travels above the set speed , you will receive an alert to warn you.
Hot spot geo fencing – again will alert if vehicle travels outside the geo fenced area.
Park my car facility – This function takes a GPS coordinate when you park your vehicle and you can easily locate the vehicle when returning to it again using Google maps to navigate you back.
Parking meter – Set the parking time on your ticket and an alert reminder will instantly warn you that you have only 15minutes left before the parking ticket expires.
Annual subscription -charge £99.99 a year.
You can understand that this system demands a precise installation and that’s where we at GAP come in. As you know, we specialise in Datatool and all our engineers are fully trained and registered as MESF Installers and have masses of experience in fitting them. They know exactly the best locations to covertly install the product, and take great care with your car during the work.
You even get a check list of the car condition and a satisfaction note to confirm everything has been done to your entire satisfaction. Of course before he leaves,  the engineer will carefully run you through the systems insuring that you understand how to use all the features.
You will be given your owners handbook and a certificate for insurance purposes and at  headquarters for safekeeping, we even record your unique pin in case you should ever forget it.
Price includes the supply and mobile installation, anywhere within the UK mainland, a full manufacturers warranty covering parts and labour and VAT. Once ordered, you will be called within 48 hours to arrange the installation. Installation lead times average 5 working days.
Reviews (0)
There are no reviews yet.
Be the first to review “Smart Start GPS DSM250I”
You must be logged in to post a review.
SKU: DSM250I - Need Help? Contact Us Leave Feedback
Category: Smart Start
Share