Maggie Haberman Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Net Worth
Maggie Haberman Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Net Worth
Posted on
by Admin 4
Maggie Haberman Biography
Maggie Haberman is an American journalist currently working as a Whitehouse correspondent for The New York Times and also a political analyst for CNN. She joined CNN in 2014. The New York Times hired Haberman as a political correspondent in 2015.
She has previously worked for multiple newspapers including The New York Post, the New York Daily News, and Politico. She gained massive popularity after her reports on former president Donald Trump during the Trump campaign and presidency.
Maggie Haberman Age
Haberman was born on October 30, 1993, in New York City. She is 47 years old as of 2020.
Maggie Haberman Height
According to her pictures, Haberman stands at an approximated height of 5 feet 6 inches. She is of average size. However, there is no information about her weight and body measurements. These details will be updated as soon as they are available. She has light brown hair paired well with her brown eyes.
Maggie Haberman Photo
Maggie Haberman Family
Haberman was born Maggie Lindsy Haberman in New York City. Her father Clyde Haberman was a journalist working for The New York Times. Her mother Nancy Haberman was a media communications executive at Rubenstein Associates.
Haberman’s mother has worked with various prominent leaders and businessmen including Donald Trump. She has a brother Zach Haberman working as a lead breaking news editor for NBC News.
Maggie Haberman Education
Haberman graduated in 1991 from Ethical Culture Fieldston School in New York. She took part in a musical play called Annie at the P.S 75 Emily Dickinson School. After graduating from high school, Haberman joined Sarah Lawrence College where she graduated in 1995 with a bachelor’s degree.
Maggie Haberman Career
Haberman is currently working as a White House correspondent for The New York Times. The newspaper hired her in 2015 as a political correspondent for the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. Her reporting style as a correspondent for The New York Times has been featured in the documentary series The Fourth Estate by Liz Garbus.
In addition, She is a political analyst for CNN. She joined CNN in 2014. Her journalism career began in 1996 when she was hired by The New York Post as a political reporter. She was assigned to cover the City Hall.
After several years, she joined New York Daily News in the early 2000s. After three years and a half, she went back to the New York Post. While at The New York Post, she covered the  2008 U.S. presidential campaign. In 2010, Politico hired her as a senior reporter.
Haberman rose to great prominence after writing about Donald Trump during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. She mainly focused on his campaign, presidency, and post-presidency. Haberman has been criticized several times for her reports on Donald Trump’s campaign and presidency.
In 2018, together with her team, The New York Times and Washington Post won the Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting for her reports on Donald Trump. Haberman is also a receiver of the individual Aldo Beckman Memorial Award from the White House Correspondents’ Association, and the Front Page Award for Journalist of the Year from the Newswomen’s Club of New York.
Maggie Haberman Husband
Haberman has been married to her husband Dareh Ardashes Gregorian since November 2003. Gregorian is a reporter working for New York Daily News. He was previously working for The New York Post. His father is an Amenian-American academic and educator Vartan Gregorian. The two had their wedding at the Tribeca Rooftop in manhattan. They currently live in Brooklyn with their three children.
Maggie Haberman Salary
Haberman is the White House correspondent for New York Times and a political correspondent for CNN. She is one of the top-rated correspondents earning an annual salary in the range of $120, 000 – $150, 000.
Maggie Haberman Net worth
Haberman has an approximated net worth in the range of $1 million – $5 million. She has garnered all her wealth from her career as a journalist.
Maggie Haberman Twitter
Tweets by maggieNYT
April 2022
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30