Remote Car Starter Sales, Installation & Replacement Remotes
Remote Car Starter
Car Salon Remote Car Starter
Industry-Leading Remote Car Starter Brands.
CompuSTAR, Viper, and Autostart, Clifford & More
Remote Car Starters in Calgary, Alberta
Car Salon helps make an informed decision.
Whether you want a basic remote starter or a one-way, two-way, long-range remote starter. Our qualified staff will give you great advice and a world-class product. Remote starters are easier to operate than ever. More reliable and guaranteed to satisfy!
Get yours at Car Salon & rest assured your vehicle will be warm every Winter Morning!
Best Brands
Turn up the heat on cold winter mornings with a professionally installed remote car starter!
Ice on your windshield? No problem!
Start your vehicle remotely from indoor comfort and watch it melt away. The same applies to the blazing summer days. Leave the AC on and you won’t have to worry about the blistering seats and steering wheels.
Remote starters were designed specifically for Canadian winters. The market has grown tremendously popular. What are the best prices in Calgary for remote car starters? In Calgary, the best deals range from $349 to $799 installed. Learn more about remote car starters and how to buy a remote car in Canada.
Looking for a Gift? See our Gift Cards here or give us a Call!
Call Our Friendly Staff.
Remote Car Starter Sales, Installation, Replacement Remotes & FOB Reprogramming
Car Salon Auto Starters
1
Top Quality Remote Starter Brands
The Best Remote Car Starters to Fire Up Your Engine from Afar.
2
Professional Installation
Our expert installation professionals have years of experience and attend regular training to stay up to date on the latest auto technology.
3
Replacement Remotes & Repair
If your desired replacement remote is not listed on our site. Don’t worry. Give us a call we can probably still replace it.
Remote Car Starter Installation in Calgary
We will professionally install the remote starter into your factory wiring by using T Connectors specific to your vehicle.
This winter, keep your car warm with remote car starter installation from Car Salon in Calgary. Our technicians are fully certified and we have installed remote car start systems for over 20 years.
Beware of Hack Shops! @CarSalon does not take shortcuts. We always install cutting-edge remote start devices that do not void your factory warranty and are quick and inexpensive to install.
Our remote starters also work with factory remotes, so pressing the lock button three times will start your car, and you can even have two-way communication.
20+ years experience
Fully Certified 12v Technicians
Products and Installations are covered by a Lifetime Warranty.
Upgrade to the Smartphone App to lock/unlock, remote start, and GPS track with no monthly fee.
Call for Assistance
Beat the Rush
Loaner Cars
Professional Installation
Installing Remote Starts since 1994
Remote Car Starters Online
Browse our Remote Start Systems & Accessories
Clifford D9857X LED 2-Way Remote Start System (INSTALLED)
$699.99 Add to cart
Compustar PRIME T9 2-Way LCD, 3000′ Range Remote (INSTALLED)
$749.99 Add to cart
Viper 2-Way Replacement Remote
Read more
Remote Starter Options
The difference between a one-way and a two-way remote start is a frequently asked question at the Calgary Car Salon. That is an excellent question. Follow along as we provide the answer.
One-Way Systems
Function similarly to most factory keyless entry systems.
You’ve used a one-way remote control if you’ve ever used a key fob to control your vehicle’s keyless entry system. The communication process is defined by the phrase “ one-way .”
Your remote control sends a signal to your vehicle in only one direction. This type of system is ideal for remote starting your vehicle from home. Car Salon offers one-way systems in a variety of ranges.
Purchase now
2-Way Systems
Two-way Remote Start Systems provide Confirmation your vehicle is started.
The single most significant benefit of a two-way system is that it confirms that your vehicle has carried out the command you have requested. Having confirmation that your vehicle has started, is warming up the interior, and is melting any precipitation is a huge relief.
Our two-way systems are also available with an extended range, giving you even more ways to enjoy your remote start.
Purchase now
Smartphone-Based System
Upgrade that provides the highest level of convenience and notification.
If you own an iPhone or an Android phone, our Drone smartphone systems could be ideal for you.
Consider having nearly limitless range. You have an unlimited range as long as the module we install in your vehicle and your phone can both access cellular service.
Purchase now
Replacement Remotes for Car Starters.
Replacement Fobs in Canada
Car Salon Audio & Remote Starter also carries replacement remotes for car starters.
If you have an older Autostart, CompuSTAR, Viper and need a substitute. We can check what type of Remote Starter you have and find yourself a remote for you.
Find our Replacement Remotes Here.
Remote Car Starter FAQ
So you’re thinking about a Remote Car Starter, but have some questions? Check out our Remote Start FAQ’s (Frequently Asked Questions). If you have a question not covered, shoot us an email or call our knowledgeable staff.
How much does it cost to put a remote starter in your car?
How long does it take to install a remote starter in a car?
Will a Remote Start System void my new car warranty?
Is it possible to install a Remote Start with a manual transmission?
How long will my vehicle stay running?
What is the purpose of remote start?
Remote Car Starter Questions?
Quickest way to get answers is to call our experienced technicians on staff helps speed up the process of getting the right product installed correctly the first time.
Call Our Friendly Staff.
Car Starter Reviews!
We appreciate our customers. Thank You Calgary! It is easy to get bad reviews, but nearly impossible to get someone to take the time for a positive testimonial. You can find or leave us a Google Review here. This great helps new customers find us.
Read & Leave Kind Reviews
Book Your Car Salon Installation!
Call or Leave us a Message.
Call for Assistance
Pick-Up / Drop Off
If you work or live within a 5 km radius of the Car Salon. We can arrange to pick up & drop off your vehicle. *Ask for details
Loaner Cars
Always on the run? No Time? No Problem we have Loaner Cars you can use while your starter is being installed. *Limited Quantities Book in Advance
In a Hurry?
Join our ``Stand By`` List & we will call you if an appointment becomes available sooner & give you a call.
Commercial Vehicle Security Part 1: Preventing Catalytic Converter Theft & More...
Watch on
Check out our YouTube Channel
Subscribe for more great grass-root videos & reviews.
Our Videos
CompuStar Remotes
Winter is approaching fast, and like most drivers, you’re planning on remote starting your vehicle every morning to warm it up. But wait – you can’t find your remote!
No problem – we’ve got you covered. Compustar customers can now purchase replacement remote transmitters at the Car Salon.
CompuStar Replacement Remotes
Viper Remotes
Viper remotes are available at The Car Salon – Audio & Remote Car Starter. We sell & program new remotes and the old remotes alike, even if we didn’t install the car starter.
If you are trying to find remote security and starting products from Viper. Then Car Salon is the right place.
Viper Replacement Remotes
Clifford Remotes
Clifford remotes are available at Car Salon – Audio & Remote Car Starter. We sell & program new remotes and the old remotes alike, even if we didn’t install the car starter.
If you are trying to find remote security and starting products from Autostart. Then The Car Salon is the right place.
AutoStart Replacement Remotes
AutoStart Remotes
Autostart remotes are available at The Car Salon – Audio & Remote Car Starter. We sell & program new remotes and the old remotes alike, even if we didn’t install the car starter.
If you are trying to find remote security and starting products from Autostart. Then The Car Salon is the right place.
AutoStart Replacement Remotes
Car Salon Remote Trade-In Deal
Bring your broken remote to us!
If we are unable to replace, repair or reprogram your remote. We’ll discount a 2-Way Remote Car System by $50 and a 1-Way System by $25.
Call for Details
Car Salon: Audio & Electronics
Whether you are looking to upgrade your stereo or outfit your work vehicle, we offer quality products.
More Services
Audio & Electronics
Accessories
Automotive Films
Mechanical
Auto Body
Car Salon Guarantee
Lifetime Installation Warranty.
Our remote starter lifetime installation warranty is one of the many factors that bring customers to the Car Salon in Calgary, Alberta.
Our confidence in the products we sell, as well as the skills of our installation technicians, eliminates the risk of providing such a warranty.
Let’s take a look at some of the reasons why a remote car starter installed by Car Salon will outlast competing products.
Product Reliability that is Unrivaled in the Industry
The Best Remote Starter Installations
Remote Starter Lifetime Installation Warranty
Car Audio & Electronics Installations are our specialty.
Contact us with any of your questions.
Contacts
How Remote Car Starters Work:
You use your remote to activate the Car Salon Remote Starter.
The parking lights flash once to indicate that the signal has been received.
A Control Module checks to see if the vehicle is in the park position (neutral safety switch). It does not start if this condition is not met.
Your ignition is powered by the Control Module (just like turning it on with a key).
The Module then supplies power to your starter for up to 6 seconds, allowing your engine to start.
It monitors your engine tachometer, detects when your engine starts, and releases the starter to prevent it from grinding. It’s probably easier on your starter than you.
The car starter activates your heater or air conditioner. Leave your defroster on in the winter to clear frost from your windshield. There will be no more scraping of windshields! In the summer, leave your air conditioner on.
If you get busy and don’t come out to drive your vehicle, your new system will keep it running for a predetermined amount of time before shutting it down automatically.
To drive away, you enter the vehicle, insert the key into the ignition, Just like you always do! Nothing out of the ordinary, but with a cool remote car starter system installed!
AstroStart Remote Car Starter
The Car Salon is an authorized Astrostart Starters Dealer in Calgary AB. We have installed hundreds of Astrostart Starters.
Trained installers with over 14 years of experience. All our techs are certified and trained to ensure your installation is done correctly. The Car Salon carries stock of Autostart Starters which means we are ready when you are. All you need to do is select the correct Car Remote Starter for your needs.
Astrostart Remotes
All Astrostart remotes are available at The Car Salon – Audio & Remote Car Starter. We sell & program new remotes and the old remotes alike, even if we didn’t install the cart starter.
If you are trying to find remote security and starting products from Astrostart. Then The Car Salon is the right place.
AstroStart Replacement Remotes
All ProStart remotes are available at The Car Salon – Audio & Remote Car Starter. We sell & program new remotes and the old remotes alike, even if we didn’t install the cart starter.
If you are trying to find remote security and starting products from ProStart. Then The Car Salon is the right place.
ProStart Replacement Remotes