Fairways la cala golf new apartment development
Fairways La Cala Golf – new development of golf apartments at La Cala Golf Resort
Fairways La Cala Golf is a stunning new development of frontline golf apartments on La Cala Golf Resort, Costa del Sol. Luxury apartments and penthouses with private pools, a private wellness centre including gym, sauna & jacuzzi all set in manicured gardens.
DOWNLOAD THE BROCHURE
Apartments for sale from 320.000 Euros
Duplex Penthouses for sale from 575.000 Euros
The Golf Development on Costa del Sol
In this gated, secure community all apartments have views over the golf courses at La Cala Golf resort. The development is surrounded by golf in three directions. Besides golf, the apartments have views over the sea and the mountains with the Mijas village on the mountain side. With its elevated location, you can be sure that sun and sea are guaranteed.
Oops, something went wrong.
Restart your browser.
If the problem persists, install a supported browser or see our troubleshooting guide
Apartments & Penthouses
The complex has been designed using the concept of Smart Living; a signature trademark of the developer Exxacon. This development comprises 54 bright, spacious and contemporary 2 and 3 bedroom apartments and penthouses. The 3 bedroom penthouses come with a private rooftop plunge pool and 2 parking spaces as standard.
This development offers a high level of privacy with spacious indoor accommodation and equally spacious outdoor living areas. All apartments and penthouses are designed with bright, generous living rooms, open plan kitchens with breakfast bar and sizeable bedrooms. The bathrooms have modern design qualities and all apartments have terraces ranging from 53 m² to 112 m². All of the ground floor apartments also benefit from private gardens up to 121 m²!
The development offers a large outdoor saltwater swimming pool with beach entry, and some of the penthouses have a private pool on the terrace. Each property has an individual storage facility and underground parking.
La Cala
Fairways La Cala Golf is only a few minutes drive from the picturesque village of La Cala. In La Cala you have access to all amenities and of course a lovely never ending beach with restaurants and typical Spanish Chiringuitos.
Golf
With an apartment here, you are in the heart of La Cala Golf resort, the largest golf resort in southern Spain with three 18 hole championship golf courses, a golf academy, tennis courts, stables, restaurants, a mini market, 4 star hotel and spa. All these facilities are located just a short walk from Fairways. There are several more golf courses within a short drive from Fariways.
In the middle of Costa del Sol
Fairways La Cala Golf, is half an hours drive from Malaga airport and only 20 minutes from Marbella. If you feel like shopping, a meal out or visiting exclusive nightclubs, Marbella is the ideal place. Just outside Marbella you find the luxury marina Puerto Banus and La Cañada shopping centre.
Only a few kilometres from Fairways La Cala Golf you find Fuengirola, which also offers a wide and varied assortment of bars, restaurants, markets, ferias and other cultural offerings. There is also the Miramar shopping mall housing 140 shops, restaurants and cinemas.
Fairways La Cala Golf is clearly perfect for golfers, but owing to its great location on the Costa del Sol, this makes it the perfect choice for anyone that wants to enjoy a calm tranquil setting whilst having everything the Costa del Sol has to offer within a few minutes drive.
Contact us for more information and availability in Fairways La Cala Golf the new development of frontline golf apartments on La Cala Golf Resort, Costa del Sol.
Name Telephone Email Message
I have read and accept the privacy policy. He leído y acepto el Aviso Legal y la Politica de Privacidad.
Have a look at the construction updates on our dedicated page: https://lacalagolfproperty.com/
And follow us on Facebook to get weekly updates!