Clifford 2-Way 5 Button Led Car Remote Start with DEI Security D9857X — mchels
1-833-515-4199
Home Clifford 2-Way 5 Button Led Car Remote Start with DEI Security D9857X
Clifford 2-Way 5 Button Led Car Remote Start with DEI Security D9857X
$242.99
✔ Free Shipping Guarantee - US Domestic Only
✔ Lowest Price Guaranteed & No Sales Tax
✔ 24/7 Customer Support - Talk To Us Anytime
Quantity
Add to cart
Free Shipping
for Orders Above $99
MANUFACTURER WARRANTY
US Brands Only
Money Back Guarantee
30 Days Money Back
Description
Clifford's top-of-the-line security and remote start system will start your car with the push of a button from up to 5,000 feet away – and confirm it has started on the large LED 2-way remote. Security works the same way: when you arm or disarm your system, you will receive a confirmation on the 2-way remote, and if your siren sounds the remote will beep or vibrate to let you know, from up to 5,000 feet away. The system comes with one 2-way and one 5-button 1-way remote.
Features:
2-Way LED 5-Button Remote- has tone and vibe modes
Command- confirmations and event notifications via the LED remote control
Security Features- All the advanced security features you expect: Dual-Zone impact sensor; Fault-proof starter interrupt; Nuisance Prevention; Warn Away; Revenger siren
Other Functions- 1-Way functions with the 5-button companion remote (included)
Compatibility- Directed SmartStart Compatible
Return Policy
All of our items have a three months warranty. Items that arrive damaged or defective can be returned within 30 days after the order is placed on our website. We ensure that all of our items are brand new and in excellent condition prior to shipping. In the event that you receive an item that does not conform to those standards, please contact us. Please keep and use the original package for returns, or we reserve our right to reasonably refuse your return requirement.
A: Non-quality related returns:
1. Shipped returns will deduct applicable shipping charges from your refund if the return isn't a result of our error. If you insist on returning the item, you can contact us to state your return reason and request a return label. Our customer care team will inform you of the shipping cost. Please note that the returned items must remain intact without impacting the second sale. When the item is delivered to us, you can request a refund.
2. You can also choose a self-selecting logistics company to return the item, and the shipping expenses shall be borne by yourself. When you need the refund to be issued, you can contact us indicating the order details and return tracking number to expedite the refund process.
B: Quality or other factors related returns:
If there is any quality issue with the item, please feel free to contact us, we will exert great effort to cope with the issue according to the status of the item with partial refund, full refund, return for a replacement.
Send the wrong item:
1. You can choose to keep the wrong item with a discounted price offered by our customer care team. In the meanwhile, you can request us to send you the correct item that you have ordered. In this situation, you have to only pay for the wrong item at a favorable price.
2. You can request a return label to send back the wrong item for the correct replacement or a full refund. After you have delivered the item to UPS, you can contact us for the replacement or the full refund as long as the return tracking number shows any further status of the shipment.
Item damaged during the shipping:
Upon the receipt of the item, if you find the item is damaged, please reject the delivery of the item and take some pictures of the damaged item. After which, you can contact us via Emails to report the situation with pictures to have this solved.
Damages found after you have received the item, please contact us with pictures of the damaged item, we will either send you to return labels to return the damaged item back for a replacement or a full refund or directly send you a new one or a full refund depending on the damage status of the item and your will.
Package Lost
After you have received the tracking number, still you haven't got the item by the expected delivery date. You may look around, check it with your neighbors, and contact the shipping company. After which, the package still does not show itself up. Contacting us with your phone number, we would set up a lost package claim against the shipping company to have your matter taken care of. It will take a week or so to get the investigation result from the shipping company. Please wait patiently during the period, and we would take relevant measures to have it settled. , example below:
You may return any unopened Brand New product within 30 days of your product`s shipping date. Shipping and Handling Charges are NOT refundable. Please note that All returns must have an RMA#.
DEFECTIVE PRODUCTS:
You may return all defective products (after receiving an RMA#) for credit or exchange within 15 days from the date of shipment. If part of a product is defective, please return the whole product, including all manuals and accessories, in the original packaging. If one of these terms is not met there will be up to a 20% restocking fee. If you choose to return a defective unit for a refund, the shipping and handling charges are non-refundable.
Warranty is voided if serial tags, receiving numbers, product stickers, or manufacturer seals have been removed, altered, or tampered with. Warranty is voided due to mishandling, improper use, or defacing of the product.
Shipping Policy
Orders are processed within 24 hours. This item cannot be shipped outside 48 internal states.