Rachel Scott Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, ABC
Rachel Scott Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, ABC
Posted by On 0 Comment
Rachel Scott Photo
Rachel Scott Biography
This is what you need to know about Rachel Scott, an American News Journalist and Reporter working for ABC News based in Washington. She is currently covering the 2020 election and the White House.
Rachel Scott Age
Rachel Scott was born in 1991 in Southern California, United States of America. She is 30 years old as of 2021.
Rachel Scott Height
Rachel stands at an average height of 5 feet 6 inches /1.68 m tall.
Rachel Scott Family
Little is known about Rachel’s parents, also there are no details about her siblings, therefore this information will be updated as soon as it’s available.
Rachel Scott Husband
Solen has not shared any information about his love life. This information will be updated as soon as it is available.
Rachel Scott Salary
Rachel receives an annual average salary of $104749. This is according to ABC News anchors/reporters’ salaries.
Rachel Scott Net Worth
Rachel has an estimated Net Worth of $100-k – $900k dollars. Her career as a Journalist is her primary source of income.
Rachel Scott ABC News
Rachel Scott is an American News Journalist and Reporter working for ABC News based in Washington. She is currently covering the 2020 election and the White House. In September 2019, Rachel was promoted to a Washington-based Multi-Platform Reporter.
She started her career in 2011, as an intern at KTLA 5 News. She was also a Current Events Director at the University of the Sunshine Coast Political Student Assembly from 2013 to 2014.
From 2012 to 2015, Rachel served as a writer for KCBS, and also worked as an Executive producer at Trojan Vision Television and Annenberg TV News.
Rachel was also an intern at CNN before joining ABC News as a Production Associate. Since 2018, she has been a Producer and Reporter at ABC News.
Read More
Janet Davies Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, ABC 7
This is what you need to know about Janet Davies, an American news reporter working for ABC 7 Chicago as a feature and entertainment reporter in August 1984. Janet is also the host and executive producer of 190 North.
The Famous Data
Callie Northagen Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Kids, Salary, Net Worth, HSN
This is what you need to know about Callie Northagen, an American television host at the Home Shopping Network (HSN) based in St. Petersburg, Florida. She joined the HSN family in April 1999.
The Famous Data