Nadia Romero Bio Wiki: Husband, Married, Net Worth 2021, Age, Birthday, Salary, Parents, CNN - younolly.com
Nadia Romero Bio Wiki: Husband, Married, Net Worth 2021, Age, Birthday, Salary, Parents, CNN
January 31, 2021 younolly Biography 0
An award-winning news reporter whose highlights have been the coverage of a mass shooting at the Cascade mall in Burlington, WA; Nadia Romero is a well-known face, that we see on CNN. She works as a national correspondent for CNN in Washington D.C. delivering live reports and digital content for CNN Newsource’s 1,000+ local news partners.
Romeo has never backed down for the coverage of breaking news no matter what the circumstances are. She covered the opioid epidemic in the Pacific Northwest and exclusive stories on the area’s growing Latino community. She is also the first black female reporter in Utah. For her remarkable career journey, Nadia got featured in Essence magazine and on The Meredith Vieira Show.
Nadia Romero Age, Birthday, Parents, Siblings
Born in the year 1986 in Ft. Worth, Texas, USA Nadia Romero is 34 years of age. Nadia’s birthday falls on the pioneer day, which is on the 24th of July.
She is extremely proud of her African roots. Nadia grew up with her elder sister Latasha, who is working as a lawyer in Chicago. Her family moved to Norfolk Virginia where Nadia grew up for 6 years. She then stayed in Missouri and later her family settled in Chicago.
Speaking of her parents, Nadia’s father is in the Navy. Also, she is extremely proud of her grandfather, Nick, who is White American and her grandmother who is an African American lady. She has shared pictures of them on her Instagram account.
Nadia Romero Education
Nadia always wanted to be a news anchor and reporter from her early life. So, as soon she graduated from her high school education, Nadia enrolled in S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University in 2004.
READ ALSO: Erik Griffin girlfriend Rachel Skylar Age, Wiki, Bio, Net Worth, Model, Ethnicity, Height 2021
In 2008, Nadia graduated with BA in Broadcast Journalism; Spanish Language, Literature, and Culture. She also spent a semester in Madrid Spain.
Nadia Romero Career Biography: CNN, Fox News
Nadia started her career in journalism when she was in college where she held various positions on campus stations and newspapers. During the last three months of her college, Romero worked as a part-time reporter for WSYR News Channel 9.
As soon as she graduated, she started working for WSJV in South Bend, IN as a lead weeknight reporter. Then, Nadia worked as a morning news reporter for KCRG TV9 News in Cedar Rapids, Iowa for 3 years.
She then worked at ABC 4 Utah becoming the first black female news anchor and reporter. After her remarkable journey in Utah, Nadia’s job took her to Seattle Washington D.C., where she worked as anchor and reporter for Q13 News – KCPQ. She is now working as CNN national correspondent since 2019.
Nadia Romero Husband, Married Life, Children
Talking of Nadia Romero’s romantic life, she is a married woman. Nadia is married to her husband of 4 years Vincent Romero. It was back in January 2017, when Nadia exchanged marital vows with her long time boyfriend, Vincent.
Judging by the looks of Nadia’s social media posts, she is leading a wonderful conjugal life with her husband. Romero’s husband is younger in age than her. Vincent Romero is 32 years of age now and celebrates his birthday on 21st November.
In the picture Nadia Romero with her loving husband
On numerous occasions, Nadia has posted pictures of her husband on her Instagram. She also thanks her spouse for lending her support and sacrifice needed for her to fulfill her childhood dream.
READ ALSO: Larsa Pippen Wiki 2020: Kids, Net Worth, Single, Husband, Age, Young, Boyfriend, Dating
Nadia’s husband left his job, moved to Washington away from his family and friends just to support Nadia in her career. That is a loving man and a husband, right there. Meanwhile, Nadia hasn’t started a family of her own yet.
Nadia Romero Net Worth, Salary, Earnings 2021
Nadia is just 34 but she has a long list of experiences in her career field. She is currently working as CNN national correspondent in Washington for which Nadia is earning a salary ranging between $95,043-$102,242.
Nadia is a top-notch journalist always showing first at any breaking news events and incidents. And through her dedication to her profession, Nadia Romero is able to boast a net worth of around $600,000. Ramero is young and will definitely work hard to enhance her net worth in the coming years.
Meanwhile, Nadia’s prosperous career has helped her live an exuberant life. She occasionally goes on vacations with her husband in various exotic locations. One instance was when she celebrated her husband’s recent birthday.
Nadia Romero Height
Nadia Romero stands at a height of 5ft 6 inches and has black curly hair with black intoxicating eyes and a slim figure. With the beautiful dazzling smile and charming personality, she has become the popular face of CNN in a very short period of time.
READ ALSO: Robert Herjavec Bio Wiki, Net Worth, Wife, Kids, Child, Children, Wedding
Nadia Romero Social Media
Nadia being a news reporter is very active on various social media platforms including in her official Facebook account @Nadianewsnow. She likes to share news and events and recently has reported on the strict security proceedings that took place in Washington during the inauguration ceremony of President Joe Biden. Her posts and stories have helped her gain 5,710 people’s likes and 5,594 people’s followings.
Meanwhile, Nadia’s posts and her stories in her Instagram account Nadianewsnow are a little different than her FB account. On Instagram, Nadia not only shares her professional events; but, also shares her wedding photos, family pictures, and her vacation pictures.
And her Twitter account @NadiaNewsNow is no different, as she keeps tweeting and posting the breaking news. She posted about the death of Larry King, she has tweeted about the Pandemic effect in the USA, and so on. Her tweets have earned her 2,857 Followers since her joining Twitter In June 2010.
Quick Wiki Facts and Information on Nadia Romero
Full Name/Real Name
Nadia Romero
Date of Birth/Birthday
24th July 1986
Age
34
Birth Sign
Leo
Born Country
USA
Nationality
American
Hometown
Ft. Worth, Texas, USA
Ethnicity
African American
Parents
N/A
Siblings
Elder sister Latasha
Profession
CNN News correspondent
Education(college/university)
Syracuse University
Marital status
Married
Husband
Vincent Romero
Children
N/A
Social Media
Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram
Net Worth
$600,000
Salary
$95,043-$102,242
Hair color
Black
Eye color
Black
Height
5 ft 6 inches
Be the first to comment