telescope - The development of the telescope and auxiliary instrumentation | Britannica
The development of the telescope and auxiliary instrumentation
Evolution of the optical telescope
Galileo is credited with having developed telescopes for astronomical observation in 1609. While the largest of his instruments was only about 120 cm (47 inches) long and had an objective diameter of 5 cm (2 inches), it was equipped with an eyepiece that provided an upright (i.e., erect) image. Galileo used his modest instrument to explore such celestial phenomena as the valleys and mountains of the Moon, the phases of Venus, and the four largest Jovian satellites, which had never been systematically observed before.
The reflecting telescope was developed in 1668 by Newton, though John Gregory had independently conceived of an alternative reflector design in 1663. Cassegrain introduced another variation of the reflector in 1672. Near the end of the century, others attempted to construct refractors as long as 61 metres, but these instruments were too awkward to be effective.
The most significant contribution to the development of the telescope in the 18th century was that of Sir William Herschel. Herschel, whose interest in telescopes was kindled by a modest 5-cm Gregorian, persuaded the king of England to finance the construction of a reflector with a 12-metre (39-foot) focal length and a 120-cm mirror. Herschel is credited with having used this instrument to lay the observational groundwork for the concept of extragalactic “nebulas”—i.e., galaxies outside the Milky Way system.
Learn about Lord Rosse's Birr Leviathan telescope and its various important discoveries, the most important being the detailed observations of many nebulae at Birr Castle, Ireland
Discover the historical significance of Lord Rosse's "Leviathan" telescope at Birr Castle, County Offaly, Ireland.
University College Cork, Ireland (A Britannica Publishing Partner)See all videos for this article
Reflectors continued to evolve during the 19th century with the work of William Parsons, 3rd earl of Rosse, and William Lassell. In 1845 Lord Rosse constructed in Ireland a reflector with a 185-cm (73-inch) mirror and a focal length of about 16 metres (52 feet). For 75 years this telescope ranked as the largest in the world and was used to explore thousands of nebulae and star clusters. Lassell built several reflectors, the largest of which was on Malta; this instrument had a 124-cm (49-inch) primary mirror and a focal length of more than 10 metres (33 feet). His telescope had greater reflecting power than Rosse’s, and it enabled him to catalog 600 new nebulae as well as to discover several satellites of the outer planets — Triton (Neptune ’s largest moon ), Hyperion (Saturn ’s 8th moon), and Ariel and Umbriel (two of Uranus ’s moons).
Refractor telescopes, too, underwent development during the 18th and 19th centuries. The last significant one to be built was the 1-metre (40-inch) refractor at Yerkes Observatory. Installed in 1897, it was the largest refracting system in the world. Its objective was designed and constructed by the optician Alvan Clark, while the mount was built by the firm of Warner & Swasey.
The reflecting telescope predominated in the 20th century. The rapid proliferation of increasingly larger instruments of this type began with the installation of the 2.5-metre (60-inch) reflector at the Mount Wilson Observatory near Pasadena, Calif., U.S. The technology for mirrors underwent a major advance when the Corning Glass Works (in Steuben county, N.Y., U.S.) developed Pyrex. This borosilicate glass, which undergoes substantially less expansion than ordinary glass does, was used in the 5-metre (200-inch) Hale Telescope built in 1948 at the Palomar Observatory. Pyrex also was utilized in the main mirror of the 6-metre (236-inch) reflector of the Special Astrophysical Observatory in Zelenchukskaya, Russia. Since then, much better materials for mirrors have become available. Cer-Vit, for example, was used for the 4.2-metre (165-inch) William Herschel Telescope of the Roque de los Muchachos Observatory in the Canary Islands, and Zerodur was used for the 10.4-metre (410-inch) reflector at the Gran Telescopio Canarias in the Canary Islands.
B.L. Klock
Advances in auxiliary instrumentation
Almost as important as the telescope itself are the auxiliary instruments that the astronomer uses to exploit the light received at the focal plane. Examples of such instruments are the camera, spectrograph, photomultiplier tube, charge-coupled device (CCD ), and charge injection device (CID). Each of these instrument types is discussed below.
Cameras
American John Draper photographed the Moon as early as 1840 by applying the daguerreotype process. The French physicists A.-H.-L. Fizeau and J.-B.-L. Foucault succeeded in making a photographic image of the Sun in 1845. Five years later astronomers at Harvard Observatory took the first photographs of the stars.
The use of photographic equipment in conjunction with telescopes benefited astronomers greatly, giving them two distinct advantages: first, photographic images provided a permanent record of celestial phenomena, and, second, photographic plates integrated the light from celestial sources over long periods of time and thereby permitted astronomers to see much-fainter objects than they would be able to observe visually. Typically, the camera’s photographic plate (or film) was mounted in the focal plane of the telescope. The plate or film consisted of glass or of a plastic material that was covered with a thin layer of a silver compound. The light striking the photographic medium caused the silver compound to undergo a chemical change. When processed, a negative image resulted; i.e., the brightest spots (the Moon and the stars, for example) appeared as the darkest areas on the plate or the film. In the 1980s the CCD supplanted photography in the production of astronomical images.
Spectrographs
Newton noted the interesting way in which a piece of glass can break up light into different bands of colour, but it was not until 1814 that the German physicist Joseph von Fraunhofer discovered the lines of the solar spectrum and laid the basis for spectroscopy. The spectrograph consists of a slit, a collimator, a prism for dispersing the light, and a focusing lens. The collimator is an optical device that produces parallel rays from a focal plane source—i.e., it gives the appearance that the source is located at an infinite distance. The spectrograph enables astronomers to analyze the chemical composition of planetary atmospheres, stars, nebulae, and other celestial objects. A bright line in the spectrum indicates the presence of a glowing gas radiating at a wavelength characteristic of the chemical element in the gas. A dark line in the spectrum usually means that a cooler gas has intervened and absorbed the lines of the element characteristic of the intervening material. The lines may be displaced to either the red end or the blue end of the spectrum. This effect was first noted in 1842 by the Austrian physicist Christian Johann Doppler. When a light source is approaching, the lines are shifted toward the blue end of the spectrum, and when the source is receding, the lines are shifted toward its red end. This effect, known as the Doppler effect, permits astronomers to study the relative motions of celestial objects with respect to Earth’s motion.
spectrograph
A spectrograph and its components.
Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
The slit of the spectrograph is placed at the focal plane of the telescope. The resulting spectrum may be recorded photographically or with some kind of electronic detector, such as a photomultiplier tube, CCD, or CID. If no recording device is used, then the optical device is technically referred to as a spectroscope.
Photomultiplier tubes
The photomultiplier tube is an enhanced version of the photocell, which was first used by astronomers to record data electronically. The photocell contains a photosensitive surface that generates an electric current when struck by light from a celestial source. The photosensitive surface is positioned just behind the focus. A diaphragm of very small aperture is usually placed in the focal plane to eliminate as much of the background light of the sky as possible. A small lens is used to focus the focal plane image on the photosensitive surface, which, in the case of a photomultiplier tube, is referred to as the photocathode. In the photomultiplier tube a series of special sensitive plates are arranged geometrically to amplify or multiply the electron stream. Frequently, magnifications of a million are achieved by this process.
The photomultiplier tube has a distinct advantage over the photographic plate. With the photographic plate the relationship between the brightness of the celestial source and its registration on the plate is not linear. In the case of the photomultiplier tube, however, the release of electrons in the tube is directly proportional to the intensity of light from the celestial source. This linear relationship is very useful for working over a wide range of brightness. A disadvantage of the photomultiplier tube is that only one object can be recorded at a time. The output from such a device is sent to a recorder or digital storage device to produce a permanent record.
Charge-coupled devices
The charge-coupled device (CCD) uses a light-sensitive material on a silicon chip to electronically detect photons in a way similar to the photomultiplier tube. The principal difference is that the chip also contains integrated microcircuitry required to transfer the detected signal along a row of discrete picture elements (or pixels) and thereby scan a celestial object or objects very rapidly. When individual pixels are arranged simply in a single row, the detector is referred to as a linear array. When the pixels are arranged in rows and columns, the assemblage is called a two-dimensional array.
Pixels can be assembled in various sizes and shapes. The Hubble Space Telescope has a CCD detector with a 1,600 × 1,600 pixel array. Actually, there are four 800 × 800 pixel arrays mosaicked together. The sensitivity of a CCD is 100 times greater than a photographic plate and so has the ability to quickly scan objects such as planets, nebulae, and star clusters and record the desired data. Another feature of the CCD is that the detector material may be altered to provide more sensitivity at different wavelengths. Thus, some detectors are more sensitive in the blue region of the spectrum than in the red region.
Today, most large observatories use CCDs to record data electronically. Another similar device, the charge injection device, is sometimes employed. The basic difference between the CID and the CCD is in the way the electric charge is transferred before it is recorded; however, the two devices may be used interchangeably as far as astronomical work is concerned.
Load Next Page