Dasha Burns NBC News, Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, Net Worth
Dasha Burns NBC News, Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Salary, Net Worth and Covid 19
June 22, 2021 Author JOURNALISTS 1
Dasha Burns Photo
Dasha Burns Biography
Dasha Burns is an American journalist, reporter, and anchor who currently serves as a reporter at NBC News in New York City since 2016 up to date. Prior to NBC, Dasha was a producer of Weekend Show Today on the same station. Dasha started her career as a writer and contributor at CNN where she served for less than 2 years from March 2015 to May 2016.
Dasha Burns Age
Dasha is 29 years old as of the year 2021, she was born on March Ist, 1992, in New York, NY, United States of America. Her birthday is on March 1st every year.
Dasha Burns Height
Dasha stands at a moderate height of 5 feet 4 inches (1.62 m).
Dasha Body Measurements and Weight
Dasha has blonde hair and a pair of blue eyes in color. She weighs 56 kg (123.46 lbs).
Dasha Burns Education
Dasha attended the University of California in Berkeley where she graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Media Studies and a minor in Anthropology. She also joined the United Nations Information center at the University of California Washington D.C. Center as a Matsui Washington fellow.
Dasha Burns Family, Siblings
Dasha was born in New York, United States of America, and raised by her parents Larysa Burns (mother) and her father. She grew up alongside her little sister. However, Dasha has not revealed more details regarding her father as well as her sister to the public. This section will be updated as soon as the information is available.
NBC Anchor Dasha Burns
Dasha Burns Husband
Dasha is married to Ben Winkle who is a Senior Associate at Global Health Strategies. The couple married on September 14, 2019, in a spectacular wedding attended by a few guests. Together the duo shares no child. Dasha and her husband reside in New York City, United States.
Dasha Burns Children
Dasha together with her husband are not yet blessed with any child. We will update this section once the information becomes available.
Dasha Burns Salary
Dasha earns an average annual salary of $44,959 per year but the range typically falls between $36,061 and $59,294. This is according to NBC news anchor/reporter salaries. However, their salaries vary mainly according to the level of seniority of the journalist in question. We will keep tabs and update her exact salary once it is available.
Dasha Burns Net Worth
Dasha’s net worth is estimated to be in the range of $1 Million – $5 Million as of 2021. She has accumulated her fortunes through her primary source of income as a reporter at NBC News. She has also worked in different institutions which also accounts for her net worth
Dasha Burns Covid 19
During the year 2020, Dasha was infected by Covid 19  a disease that is spread through a virus known as Coronavirus. Its symptoms include difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, and also loss of speech or movement. She frequently appeared at NBC Channel and other channels to advise people on how to prevent themselves from being infected. She enhanced this by giving out the measures to be taken like washing hands regularly, avoiding crowded places, wearing a face mask as well as covering the mouth while coughing. She is now fully recovered after receiving treatment and taking the right precautions.
Dasha Burns NBC
Burns has been with NBC for around 5 years as of 2021. She joined NBC in May 2016 as a partner producer of the Weekend TODAY Show till Dec 2017 when she was elevated to be the principal producer of the Weekend Today Show. She was then moved from Weekend Today producer to be a journalist (March 2019-present).
Burns Body measurements and Facts
Full Names: Dasha Burns
Career / Profession: Journalist
Nationality: American
Ethnicity: White
Age: 29 years old as of the year 2021
Zodiac Sign: Pisces
Date of Birth: March Ist, 1992
Birthday: March 1st every year
Height: 5 feet 4 inches (1.62 m)
Weight: 56 kg (123.46 lbs)
Marital Status: Married
Husband/Spouse: Ben Winkle
Children: To be updated
Net Worth: $1 Million – $5 Million
Salary: About $44,959 per year
Dasha Burns House
Dasha together with her husband resides in New York City, NY, United States of America. However, we are keeping tabs and will update you with pictures of her house as soon as we have them.
Read Also Other Related Biographies;
Christine Cruz
Katie Lasalle
Melissa Nord
Burns Social Media Platforms
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Famous People in USA