Kate Bennett CNN, Age, Bio, Wikipedia, Married, Husband, Hair, Pics
Home » political analyst »
Kate Bennett CNN, Age, Bio, Wikipedia, Married, Husband, Hair, Pics
by Marathi.TV Editorial Team
Feb 25, 2020
1 Comment
Name Kate Bennett Wedding & Marriage / Husband / Dating / Partner / Boyfriend Married. See below for relationship details.
Wiki Biography / Profile Information
Introduction :
Kate Bennett is a reporter who works for CNN at the White House in Washington D.C.
Focused and determined to make her mark in the capital city, Bennett works very hard to deliver accurate news and keep people as well informed as possible.
Parents, Family Background & Education :
Bennett was born and raised in Chevy Chase, Maryland.
She is the daughter of James K. Glassman, former editor and co-owner of The New Republic’s Roll Call, as well as the President of The Atlantic Monthly. James was also made the Public Affairs under former President Bush and the Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy in 2008.
Education : Kate moved from Chevy Chase, Maryland, to a boarding school in Connecticut before attending St John’s College.
Kate’s middle name is Julia, and she says that she was named after author, TV personality and chef, Julia Child.
Kate is married. She and her husband have a daughter who is quite young. They initially lived in Las Vegas, Nevada, but moved to Washington D.C. when she got her job in the White House.
Career, Income, Salary & Net worth :
Kate began her career working at ‘Hard Ball’ alongside Chris Matthews, a stint she credits for setting her up for a career opportunity at the Vegas Magazine where she worked as a writer.
Due to her high-quality articles and good writing skills, Bennett was soon made Editor in Chief for the magazine worked for more than a year before transferring to Washington D.C.
Kate currently works as a White House reporter as part of the CNN Network and co-hosts the podcast for CNN Politics called COVER/LINE.
Bennett has also worked as a fashion writer and magazine editor for the likes of The Washingtonian, Politico, Journal Review, and The Independent as well many more outlets.
Working as a journalist, she has covered lifestyle issues and merging politics, pop culture, and people.
Interesting Facts, Height & Trivia :
During her free time, Kate enjoys spending time with her husband and their daughter.
Kate especially loves to take her daughter to every place she enjoyed visiting when she was a child, such as the Kennedy Center and to various Smithsonian Museums.
Passionate about cooking, she loves to display her culinary skills on social media. One of her favorite dishes is roasted chicken.
Bennett loves to stay active and regularly work out in Solidcore classes, which she credits for transforming her butt.
True to her personality and edgy style, Kate has refused to give up her interests and the things she loves, having multiple tattoos all over her body and making a point to keep fashion staples she holds dearly to her heart, such as her thigh-high boots from Stuart Weitzman.
She is very vocal about being true to herself & regularly talks to women via social media and interviews to inspire them to not wait around for permission from other people to live their lives.
Age / How old / Birthday / Date of Birth / DOB No confirmed information available on her birth year or the date she was born.
Tags: CNN Political Pundits | Republican & Conservative Pundits List