Clifford D9656X LED 1-Way Remote Start System (INSTALLED) - Car Salon
Clifford D9656X LED 1-Way Remote Start System (INSTALLED)
In-Store Only
LED 1-Way Remote Start System
The price is the starting price of installation.
The prices may vary based on the Year Make Model of the vehicle.
A representative will contact you within 24hours to confirm the appointment
**Additional parts and labor may be required.
Call For More Details
–
$749.99$599.99
Please Contact Us for Details on This Products Availability
Description
Additional information
Reviews (0)
Clifford D9656X
LED 1-Way Remote Start System
*Range based on line-of-sight, unobstructed testing in ideal conditions. Actual range will vary due to local conditions including, but not limited to, environment, terrain, physical obstructions, vehicle location and orientation, interference and other possible impediments.
Start your engine with the push of a button from up to a 1/2 mile away with this slender, elegant 5 button remote control. Based on the best-selling 2-Way LED Remote Start System, this is the value-priced 1-Way version. Includes the very latest in Remote Start technology, including Virtual Tach, D2D and XPRESSPORT™.
(Shown with optional 7656X companion remote.)
The prices may vary based on the Year Make Model of the vehicle.
A representative will contact you within 24hours to confirm the appointment
**Additional parts and labor may be required.
Features
4 auxiliary channels
Flex relay and selectable light flash priority**
Horn Honk**
Includes one 1-Way remote
Manual transmission compatible**
Up to 1/2 mile range*
Onboard remote start relays
Separate ESP2 and D2D ports
Directed SmartStart Compatible
SKU: D9656X Categories: Car Electronics, Remote Starters, Remote Car Starter Package, Clifford Tags: automatic car starter‌‌, best remote car starter‌‌, Best Remote Starters, Best Remote Starts, calgary remote car starter‌‌, calgary remote starter‌‌, car remote starter calgary, car remote starter installation‌‌, car starter‌‌, car starters‌‌, Clifford, Clifford Remote Start & ar Alarm, Clifford Replacement Remote Starters, Clifford Reviews, install remote starter‌‌, remote car starter, remote car starter calgary, remote car starters, remote car starters calgary‌‌, remote start calgary, remote starter installation‌‌, Remote Starters under $1000 Specials on Remote Starts