Arlette Saenz (CNN) Spouse, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Married, ABC, Texas, Salary and Net Worth
Home USA JOURNALISTS Arlette Saenz (CNN) Spouse, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Married, ABC, Texas, Salary and Net Worth
Arlette Saenz (CNN) Spouse, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Married, ABC, Texas, Salary and Net Worth
0
Arlette Saenz Biography and Wiki
Born and raised in Texas, USA, Arlette Saenz is an American journalist based in Washington, D.C. She is well known as a political reporter for CNN. She is covering Former Vice President Joe Biden and the 2020 presidential campaign.
Arlette Saenz Age and Birthday
Arlette is 37 years old, she was born on April 22nd, 1983 in Brownsville, Texas.
Arlette Saenz Height and Weight
Arlette stands at an average height of 5 feet 5 inches tall with a moderate weight of 55 kgs.
Arlette Saenz Parents and Education
She was born and brought up in Texas, the USA, however, she has not disclosed any information on her family, parents, and siblings. Arlette graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 2007 with a Bachelor’s degree in American studies and a minor in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service.
Arlette Saenz Husband and Children
Arlette is quite secretive about her personal life. She has not disclosed any information on her husband’s identity or whether she is married or single. This information is soon to be updated.
Arlette Saenz CNN and Joe Bidden
Saenz joined CNN in 2018 as CNN political correspondent based in Washington, D.C. She is covering Former Vice President Joe Biden and the 2020 presidential campaign, including Biden’s response to President Trump asking foreign governments to investigate him and his son Hunter, the decision by Biden’s allies to form a super PAC to help his candidacy, and Biden’s
Also read: Jen Lada ESPN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Family, Parents, Husband, Net Worth, Salary
Arlette Saenz ABC, Texas and Wikipedia
Arlette started off her career as an intern with “Nightline” at ABC before returning to the network as a desk assistant. She served as a White House Reporter and Producer at ABC News in Washington, D.C.
She was also a part of the network’s team covering President Donald Trump’s administration, Capitol Hill, and national politics. she has filed live on-air reports for ABC NewsOne, the network’s affiliate service, ABC programs “World News Now” and “America This Morning,” and ABC News Digital.
She has contributed to ABC News Radio and writes for ABCNews.com. She has also reported on President Barack Obama’s administration and the 2016 presidential campaign. She moved across the U.S. and to many countries covering Obama, including his historic visits to Cuba, Hiroshima, and Kenya.
She also reported on Vice President Joe Biden, including his 2016 decision-making process. In the 2016 presidential campaign, she reported and produced from key primary and caucus states, at primary and general election debates, at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland and the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
Before covering the White House, she served as the digital journalist on the Senate beat, reporting on the 2013 government shutdown and the 2014 midterm elections. In the 2012 election, she was one of the network’s off-air political reporters.
Over the course of the election cycle, she was assigned as an embed reporter with the campaigns of Biden, Newt Gingrich, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, and Rick Santorum.
Arlette Saenz Salary
Arlette receives an annual salary of $75,000 every year. The normal pay of a news journalist in the USA ranges from between $ 24,292 and $ 72,507 that translates to an hourly average wage of between $ 10.15 and $ 31.32.
Arlette Saenz Net Worth
Arlette Saenz is believed to have an estimated net worth of $350,000 as of 2021. She has amassed this amount from her career as a news journalist for CNN and other previous networks she has worked for.
Also read: Jackie Goldschneider Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Birthday, Children, Parents, Net Worth, RHONJ
Who is Arlette Saenz?
Saenz is an American journalist based in Washington, D.C. She is well known as a political reporter for CNN.
How Old is Arlette Saenz ?
Arlette is 37 years old, she was born on April 22nd, 1983 in Brownsville, Texas.
Is Arlette Saenz Married ?
Arlette is quite secretive about her personal life. She has not disclosed any information on her husband’s identity or whether she is married or single.
How Tall is Arlette Saenz ?
Arlette stands at an average height of 5 feet 5 inches tall
Arlette’s Twitter
Be the first to comment