Jasmine Wright Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, CNN, Net Worth, and Salary
Jasmine Wright Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, CNN, Net Worth, Salary and Twitter
Jasmine Wright Biography
Jasmine Wright is an American reporter who is currently working at CNN. She serves as the White House Reporter for CNN. During the 2020, presidential elections, she served as a political embed.
Jasmine Wright Age
Wright is 31 years old as of 2021. She was born on March 3, 1990, in Windy City, United States. She celebrates her birthday on the 3rd of March every year.
Jasmine Wright Height
Wright stands at a height of 5 feet 4 inches (1.6m) tall.
Jasmine Wright Family
Wright has managed to keep her personal life away from the limelight hence she has not disclosed any information about her parents. It is also not known if Wright has any siblings.
Jasmine Wright Husband
Wright is very private about her personal life therefore it is not known if she is in any relationship. There are also no rumors of her being in any past relationship with anyone.
Jasmine Wright Net Worth
Wright has an estimated net worth of between $1 Million – $5 Million which she has earned through her career as a  reporter.
Jasmine Wright
Jasmine Wright Salary
Wright earns an annual salary ranging from $ 45,000 – $ 110,500.
The table below answers some of the frequently asked questions about Wright.
How old is Jasmine Wright?
31 years old as of 2021
How tall is Jasmine Wright?
5 feet 4 inches (1.6m)
Who is Jasmine Wright married to?
Not Available
How much money does Jasmine Wright earn?
$45,000 – $110,500
How much is Jasmine Wright worth?
$1 Million – $5 Million
Jasmine Wright Career
During the 2020, presidential elections, she served as a political embed, where she trailed then-Senator Kamala Harris during her Democratic primary campaign. When she ran on the Democratic ticket as Vice President, she reprised her role as an embed for Harris. Additionally, she also embedded on Senator Amy Klobuchar’s Democratic primary campaign.
She traveled across the country to trail House and Senate candidates on their quest to Capitol Hill along with potential 2020 candidates when she covered the 2018 midterm elections for CNN. Previously, She worked at PBS NewsHour where she served as a reporter-producer covering the Trump administration and climate disasters. During that time, she wrote and produced countless tape pieces on Congress, the Russia investigation for the daily news show, and the White House. Before then, she assisted in covering the 2016 elections where she served as the Political Unit’s production assistant. Additionally, she is a National Association of Black Journalists member.
She is a Windy City native. She attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where she graduated with a degree in Broadcast Journalism.
Jasmine Wright CNN
Wright is currently working at CNN where she works alongside other famous CNN anchors and reporters including;
Anderson Cooper
Guillermo Arduino
Carl Azuz
Jeffy Zeleny
Julian Zelizer
Jeff Zucker
Vanessa Yurkevich
Ryan Young
Fareed Zakaria
Fredricka Whitefield
Whitney Wild
Coy Wire
Ben Westcott
Nick Watt
Bill Weir
Ben Wedeman
Hines Ward
Ivan Watson
Clarissa Ward
Bianna Golodryga
Brooke Baldwin
Jasmine Wright Social Media Platforms
Wright is active on her social media accounts and is often seen posting on her Instagram, and Twitter. She has over 19k followers on Twitter, over 3k followers on Instagram.
Twitter