Jamie Gangel Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Net Worth and CNN
Famous People in U.S.A
Jamie Gangel Bio, Age, Height, Family, Husband, Net Worth and CNN
By keybiography
Sep 4, 2021 Famous Journalists in U.S.A
Jamie Gangel Biography
Jamie Gangel (born Jamie Sue Gangel) is an American journalist and television news reporter working as a CNN special correspondent. She is also a former national correspondent for the NBC News Today show. Gangel joined NBC News in 1983 as a general assignment and political correspondent and became a frequent contributor to NBC Nightly News, Today, Dateline NBC, and MSNBC.
Gangel studied at Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service earned a Bachelor of Science degree. She also studied global economics at Harvard University.
Jamie Gangel Age
Gangel is 66 years as of 2021, she was born in New York City, United States in 1955. Her exact date of birth and birthdays are not publicly available. However, this information will be updated once available.
Jamie Gangel Photo
Jamie Gangel Height
Gangel stands at an average height of 5 feet 8 inches (1.73m). She has a weight of 158 lbs.
Jamie Gangel Family
Gangel was born and raised in New York City, United States. She is the daughter of Richard I. Gangel (Father)and Phyllis Gangel-Jacob (Mother). Her mother is a retired justice of the New York Supreme Court.  However, when she was eleven months old her parents divorced.
Jamie Gangel Husband
Gangel is happily married to Daniel Silva the New York Times bestselling author. The couple tied their knot in 1988 and they are blessed with two children, twins Lily and Nicholas. However, the couple resides in  Florida, United States of America with their children.
Jamie Gangel Net Worth
Gangel has an estimated net worth of $1 million dollars. Her primary income is her career as a journalist which has been able to accumulate her good fortune.
Jamie Gangel Career
Gangel commenced her profession in broadcast journalism in 1978 as an undertaking editor for WJLA-TV in Washington, D.C. At the identical time, she labored for all-information radio station WTOP-AM, the CBS associate in Washington. In 1982, she joined tv station WPLG-TV in Miami, Florida as a preferred undertaking reporter and replacement anchor.
Gangel furnished a number of the primary reviews of the September 11, 2001 assaults from New York, which include confirming that the Pentagon was hit via way of means of an aircraft and that the CIA workplaces were evacuated. Her extraordinary interviews have blanketed Frank Zappa and previous Presidents. On August 24, 2015, Gangel commenced a brand new section of her profession as a Special Correspondent for CNN
Jamie Gangel Social Media Contacts
Twitter
Instagram
Face b ook
LinkedIn
By