Joy Reid Bio, Age, Husband, MSNBC, Illness, Salary, Net Worth
Joy Reid Bio, Age, Husband, MSNBC, Illness, Salary, Net Worth
Joy Reid Biography
Joy Reid whose fullname is Joy-Ann M. Lomena-Reid is an American cable television host, MSNBC national correspondent, and liberal political commentator. In 2016, The Hollywood Reporter described her as one of the political pundits “who have been at the forefront of the cable-news conversations this election season”. That same year, she wrote a book on the recent history of the Democratic Party called Fracture: Barack Obama, the Clintons, and the Racial Divide.
Joy Reid Age
Reid is 52 years old as of 2021. She was born on December 8, 1968 in Brooklyn, New York, United States. She celebrates her birthday on 8th December every year.
Joy Reid Height
Reid stands at a height of 5 feet 9 inches (1.75m).
Joy Reid Family
Joy-Ann Lomena, Reid’s mother, was born in Brooklyn, New York City. Her father was a college professor and nutritionist from Guyana, and her mother was from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Her parents met in graduate school at the Iowa City’s University of Iowa. Reid has a sister and a brother and was raised as a Methodist. Her father was an engineer who spent much of his time away from the family; her parents finally split, and her father moved back to the Congo. She was largely reared in Denver, Colorado, until she was 17 years old when her mother died of breast cancer and she relocated to Brooklyn to live with an aunt.
Joy Reid Husband
Reid married Jason Reid in 1997, who went on to work as a documentary film editor. The couple is the parents of three children.
Joy Reid Net Worth
Reid has an estimated net worth of $4 Million.
Joy Reid Photo
Joy Reid Salary
Sample earns an annual salary of $1.5 Million.
The table below answers some of the frequently asked questions about Reid.
How old is Joy Reid?
52 years old
How tall is Joy Reid?
1.75meters
Who is Joy Reid married to?
Jason Reid
How much money does Joy Reid earn?
$1.5 million
How much is Joy Reid worth?
$4 Million
Joy Reid Education
Reid graduated from Harvard University in 1991 with a concentration in film studies. In a 2013 interview, Reid recalled that her college experience was a quick immersion into a demographically opposite place from where she lived, from a community that was eighty percent African American to a community that was six percent African American. She had to learn to live with roommates and people who were not her family. She paid her own bills and tuition while at Harvard and said it was a good learning and growing experience overall.
Joy Reid Career
Reid began her journalism career in 1997, when she moved from New York and her employment at a business consulting firm to South Florida to work for a morning show on WSVN Channel 7. She left journalism in 2003 to work with the anti-war group America Coming Together to fight President George W. Bush and the Iraq War. She later worked on Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and returned to broadcasting as a talk radio personality. Reid co-hosted Wake Up South Florida, a morning radio talk show broadcast from Radio One’s then-Miami affiliate WTPS, with “James T” Thomas from 2006 to 2007. She was the managing editor of The Grio from 2011 to 2014, a political writer for the Miami Herald from 2003 to 2015, and the editor of the political blog The Reid Report from 2000 to 2014.
Joy Reid MSNBC
Reid held her own MSNBC afternoon cable news show, The Reid Report, from February 2014 to February 2015. Reid was moved to a new role as an MSNBC national correspondent when the show was canceled on February 19, 2015. Beginning in May 2016, Reid anchored AM Joy, an MSNBC political weekend morning discussion show, and filled in for other MSNBC presenters such as Chris Hayes and Rachel Maddow on a regular basis. Reid’s Saturday morning show had approximately one million weekly viewers as of 2018. Reid is the author of Fracture: Barack Obama, the Clintons, and the Racial Divide, which was released on September 8, 2015 by HarperCollins. Reid delivered Wake Forest University’s Anna Julia Cooper Center’s inaugural Ida B. Wells lecture in 2015. Reid was the fourth most tweeted journalist and fourth most tweeted news outlet on Twitter in 2017. In August of that year, The Daily Dot credited her with coining the word KHive for Kamala Harris supporters. Reid became cable’s first black female primetime anchor when MSNBC announced in July 2020 that she would host The ReidOut, a new Washington-based weekly commentary show, in the 7 p.m. Eastern time slot vacated by Hardball host Chris Matthews’ retirement in March 2020. Reid also teaches a race, gender, and media class at Syracuse University in Manhattan.
Joy Reid Gabby Petito
Reid dubbed the disappearance and death of Florida woman Gabby Petito as the “missing white woman syndrome as she questioned the lack of similar attention in cases involving people of colour.
Joy Reid Ratings
Reid fumed about Biden’s low approval rating, which one ABC News poll put at 41%, during a discussion with left-wing historian Michael Beschloss on “The ReidOut.” “I hate to really dwell on polls because they’re ephemeral and at this point in many of their presidencies a lot of presidents faced a crisis of public confidence, and Joe Biden faces a massive ongoing COVID nightmare that is harming his numbers. His numbers are pretty low right now,” she said.
Joy Reid Illness
There are no details of her having any form of illness. She is in perfect health.
Twitter
Tweets by JoyAnnReid