Monica Alba Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, MSNBC, Net Worth, and Salary
Monica Alba Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, MSNBC, Net Worth, Salary and Twitter
Monica Alba  Biography
Monica Alba is an American anchor who is currently working for NBC News in Washington D.C. She serves as a political reporter for NBC News. She covered President Trump and the 2020 campaign.
Monica Alba Age
Alba is 34 years old as of 2021. She was born on August 25, 1987, in California, United States. She celebrates her birthday on the 25th of August every year.
Monica Alba Height
Alba stands at a height of 5 feet 6 inches tall.
Monica Alba Family
Alba’s father is known as Manuel Alba while her mother is known as Mari Alba. She has a sister who is known as Loreli.
Monica Alba Husband
Alba is married to Dan Patrick Merica. They first met in Manchester N.H in August 2015, while they were covering Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaigns. Later on, on July 27, 2019, they tied the knot at the West shore cafe and inn in Homewood, California. She has not stated whether or not she has any children as she likes to keep her personal life private.
Monica Alba Net Worth
Alba has an estimated net worth of between $1 Million – $5 Million which she has earned through her career as an anchor.
Monica Alba
Monica Alba Salary
Alba earns an annual salary ranging from $ 45,000 – $ 110,500.
The table below answers some of the frequently asked questions about Alba.
How old is Monica Alba?
34 years old as of 2021
How tall is Monica Alba?
5 feet 6 inches
Who is Monica Alba married to?
Dan Patrick Merica
How much money does Monica Alba earn?
$45,000 – $110,500
How much is Monica Alba worth?
$1 Million – $5 Million
Monica Alba Career
She worked as a White House producer, traveling extensively with the president domestically and overseas for the first two years of the Trump administration. Furthermore,  for eighteen months, she followed Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail as an embedded reporter. She also served as an associate producer in the NBC Investigative Unit in New York City before the 2016 election.
She attended the USC Annenberg School where she graduated with honors earning her degree in broadcast journalism with minors in international relations and cinematic arts in 2009. Additionally, she also attended the Columbia Journalism School where she specialized in documentary filmmaking and received a master’s degree.
She is a San Jose, California native who is eloquent in Spanish. Interestingly, she is a co-founder of the Social Issues Documentary Film Contest, a film festival that requires high school students to produce short documentaries on social issues in the San Francisco Bay Area.
During her downtime, she enjoys traveling, indie film fiend, cheering international soccer teams, and a photographer.
Monica Alba MSNBC
Alba is currently working at MSNBC where she works alongside other famous MSNBC anchors and reporters including;
Lawrence O’Donnell
Kelly O’Donnell
Kristen Welker
Peter Alexander
Kasie Hunt
Carol Lee
Garret Haake
Savannah Guthrie
Marrianna Sotomayor
Mike Memoli
Steve Patterson
Morgan Radford
Lester Holt
Geoff Bennett
Steve Schmidt
Richard Lui
Cynthia McFadden
Ali Velshi
Kate Snow
Jacob Soboroff
Heldi Przybyla
Josh Lederman
Leigh Ann Caldwell
Tamron Hall
Jason Johnson
Eugene Robinson
Nicolle Wallace
Chuck Todd
Steve Kornack
Rachel Maddow
Yasmin Vossoughian
Joshua Johnson
Lindsey Reiser
Alicia Menendez
Chris Jansing
Savannah Sellers
Brian Williams
Alex Witt
Cori Coffin
Kendis Gibson
Ayman Mohyeldin
Katy Tur
Andrea Mitchell
Craig Melvin
Hallie Jackson
Stephanie Ruhle
Monica Alba Social Media Platforms
Alba is active on her social media accounts and is often seen posting on her Instagram, and Twitter. She has over 52k followers on Twitter, over 4k followers on Instagram.
Twitter