Jennifer Jacobs Bloomberg, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Salary, & Net Worth
Jennifer Jacobs Bloomberg, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Jane JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Jennifer Jacobs Bio | Wiki
Jennifer Jacobs is an American journalist and correspondent. Currently, she serves as a senior White House correspondent for Bloomberg News in Washington, District of Columbia. Previously, Jennifer served as a national political reporter at Bloomberg Politics, covering the 2016 presidential election. Before Washington, D.C., she served as the chief politics reporter at The Des Moines Register.
In October 2020, Jennifer revealed that Hope Hicks, close confidante of Donald Trump, had been diagnosed with the coronavirus. Shortly thereafter, multiple senior Republicans and Trump administration officials, including Trump himself, said they had been infected too.
Jennifer Jacobs Age
Jennifer was born in Illinois, United States. She is around 50 years old. Jennifer keeps her personal information private, hence, her date and year of birth are not known to the general public.
Jennifer Jacobs Height
She is a woman of average height. Jennifer stands at a height of 5 ft 5 in (Approx. 1.65 m).
Jennifer’s photo
Jennifer Jacobs Family
She was born and raised in Illinois by her parents. Jennifer holds an American nationality and belongs to the white ethnicity. She has, however, not shared information about her parents and\or siblings.
Jennifer Jacobs Bloomberg Husband | Married
Jennifer is a beautiful woman who enjoys her life and career. She keeps her love life away from the limelight. Therefore, it is not known whether she is married, divorced, or single.
Jennifer Jacobs Education
She earned a BA in English Language and Literature from Iowa State University in 1993. In 2003, Jennifer received a degree in French language and Literature.
Jennifer Jacobs Bloomberg
Jennifer currently serves as a senior White House correspondent for Bloomberg News in Washington, District of Columbia. Previously, she served as a national political reporter at Bloomberg Politics, covering the 2016 presidential election. Before Washington, D.C., she served as the chief politics reporter at The Des Moines Register. Jennifer joined the publication in 2004 and had previously covered the Iowa Senate and Hillary Clinton‘s 2008 run for president.
She commenced her career as a general assignment reporter at The Waterloo-Cedar Falls Courier in 1993. While there, Jennifer covered metro news and city government, before becoming a reporter at The Post-Standard in Syracuse in 1999. Additionally, she became a political reporter for The Des Moines Register in 2004. While there, Jennifer covered the Iowa legislature and state government, until she moved into national politics. Later, she became chief politics reporter in 2011.
Jennifer Jacobs Salary
She serves as a senior White House correspondent for Bloomberg News, she, therefore, receives a satisfactory salary. Jennifer’s average salary is $86,654 per year.
Jennifer Jacobs Net Worth
She has worked as a journalist for many years. Therefore, there is no doubt she has accumulated decent wealth over the years. The estimated net worth of Jennifer is $851,561.
How Tall Is Jennifer Jacobs
Jennifer is a woman of average height and stands at a height of 5 ft 5 in (Approx. 1.65 m).
Who Is Jennifer Jacobs
Jennifer is an American journalist and correspondent. Currently, she serves as a senior White House correspondent for Bloomberg News in Washington, District of Columbia.
What Happened To Jennifer
Jennifer currently serves as a senior White House correspondent for Bloomberg News in Washington, District of Columbia. Previously, she served as a national political reporter at Bloomberg Politics, covering the 2016 presidential election.
Jennifer Twitter
David Venable QVC, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Family, Wife, House, Bracelet, Salary, And Net Worth
Louis Riddick ESPN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, NFL, Salary, Net Worth