Jessica Schneider (CNN) Wiki Bio, age, wedding, husband, salary, family - Biography Tribune
Anchors
Jessica Schneider (CNN) Wiki Bio, age, wedding, husband, salary, family
By james December 25, 2021
Contents[hide]
1 Who is Jessica Schneider?
2 Jessica Schneider Net Worth
3 Early Life and Education
4 Career Beginnings
5 Rise to Fame and CBS News
6 Recent Years and CNN
7 Career as an Attorney
8 Personal Life
9 Appearance and Vital Statistics
10 Social Media Presence
Who is Jessica Schneider?
Jessica Schneider was born on 26 April 1970, in Manchester, Connecticut USA, so is currently aged 49. She is a television personality, journalist and reporter, probably best recognized for working in the positions of a justice correspondent based in Washington, D.C. for the CNN network. Besides that, Jessica is also known for being an attorney.
Just a simple reminder that article is created and owned only by biographytribune.com. Article cannot be re-published in any other pages or documents. Copyright is protected by DMCA. All found copies will be reported.
Original source: https://biographytribune.com/jessica-schneider-cnn-wiki-bio-age-wedding-husband-salary-family/
Would you like to know more about Jessica Schneider’s professional career and personal life? How rich is she, as of now? If you are interested, stay tuned and find out.
Good morning from #Cleveland!  Tune in to #NewDay now for my latest report on the battleground state!
Posted by Jessica Schneider on Tuesday, August 2, 2016
Jessica Schneider Net Worth
Her career started in 2002, and since then, she has been an active member of the news industry, primarily known as a television personality and journalist. So, if you ever wondered how rich Jessica Schneider is, it has been estimated by authoritative sources that the total size of her net worth is over $4 million, accumulated through her successful career. Her annual salary is over $350,000, so if she continues to develop her career further, her net worth will certainly increase in the coming years.
Early Life and Education
Concerning her early life, Jessica spent her childhood in Manchester, where she was raised by her parents, whose names and professions have not been revealed to the public yet. She attended Manchester High School, where her love for journalism was developed under the influence of her mother, who encouraged her to start contributing to the high school’s monthly news show, entitled MHS TV News. Upon matriculation in 1998, Jessica enrolled into Boston University, from which she graduated magna cum laude with a degree in both Political Science and Broadcast Journalism in 2002. She continued to work as an anchor and executive producer for BUTV’s news magazine “Inside Boston”, and contributed to the local program “Neighborhood Network News”. As one of the most successful students, she was chosen to serve as the Commencement Speaker for the College of Communication, and was even named the Most Distinguished Journalism Student.
Jessica Schneider
Career Beginnings
Right after her graduation, Jessica started pursuing her career as a professional journalist, as she was hired to work in Albany, New York State in the position of bureau chief and political reporter for the Time Warner cable channel Capital News 9 (now YNN/Time Warner Cable News). During her stint there, she worked for the nightly political show “Capital Tonight” and was even a member of the team which won an Emmy Award for the lifestyle special entitled “Exterior Designs”. Three years later, she joined WFSB-TV Channel 3 in Hartford, Connecticut, where she initially worked as the New Haven Bureau Reporter, and was later promoted to the position of a weekend morning anchor. She worked there until 2010, increasing her net worth by a large margin, but concurrently studied for her law degree at the University of Connecticut.
Rise to Fame and CBS News
After gaining enough knowledge and experience as a journalist, Jessica came to prominence in 2011, when she started serving in the position of a reporter at WCBS-TV Channel 2, based in New York City. Over the next five years, she contributed to CBS News, and now covered various legal issues and trials as well as general assignment news. Thereafter, she was a part of the team which covered Superstorm Sandy. We can also say that her outstanding academic performances have helped her climb the ladder of success so rapidly, as she distinguished herself as an ambitious journalist.
Furthermore, Jessica also gained enormous popularity after covering for nine months the Return Home New Jersey program by Governor Chris Christie, which led her to win an Emmy Award for Continuing Coverage, which helped add a considerable amount to her net worth.
Recent Years and CNN
In April of 2016, Jessica decided to quit her previous job to join the CNN network, as she got an offer to serve in the position of a correspondent based in New York City. One year later, she was promoted to work as a justice correspondent based in Washington, D.C., in charge of covering the Trump Administration, the US Supreme Court, FBI, and the Department of Justice. She is still working there, so we can conclude that her net worth is certainly still rising.
Career as an Attorney
Apart from being known as a television personality, Jessica is also known for working as an attorney. While working at WFSB Channel 3 in Hartford, Connecticut, she attended the University of Connecticut School of Law from 2006 to 2010. While in there, she served as a judicial intern at the U.S. District Court – District of Connecticut, as a summer associate at Sedgwick, Detert, Moran and Arnold, and was a participant in the Law Student Observer Program. Besides that, she involved her love for journalism in her studies, so she even worked as an Articles Editor for the Connecticut Journal of International Law.
Upon graduation with honors, Jessica qualified to practice law in both New York State and New Jersey, and was hired Sedgwick, Detert, Moran and Arnold, to work as an attorney from 2010 to 2011, which was followed by her job at Haworth Coleman & Gerstman, LLC, all of which contributed a lot to her net worth.
An incredible day covering the #SupremeCourt for #CNN. A true dream come true & reason I went to @UConnLaw. Thanks for pic @steve_vladeck pic.twitter.com/hMxEJZTpwL
— Jessica Schneider (@SchneiderCNN) June 26, 2017
Personal Life
If to talk about her personal life, Jessica Schneider met Mitch Schwartzman in a local pub and they started dating in the summer of 2011. Two years later, they became engaged, and the couple tied the knot at their wedding ceremony in 2016. However, it did not take long until they went their separate ways. After that, Jessica moved on with her life and started dating Adam Harrison, who works as a project manager. In July of 2018, they got engaged and announced their wedding for May of the following year.
Appearance and Vital Statistics
Speaking about her appearance and physical attributes, Jessica Schneider is apparently an attractive woman with blonde hair and dark brown colored eyes. Although she is in her late 40s, she has a fit figure, as she stands at an average height of 5ft 10ins (1.78m), while information about her weight and vital statistics has not been revealed yet.
schneiderjessica
Thomas Jefferson Memorial
View profile
schneiderjessica
326 posts
                  ·
                  3,224 followers
View more on Instagram
Comment Share Save
450 likes
schneiderjessica
He swept me off my feet when I met him two years ago, and he’s done it every day since.  I got to marry my best friend and soulmate on May 11, and the weather gods smiled down on us long enough to take our first photos at the #JeffersonMemorial, my favorite monument.  The rain didn’t move in until later.  They claim it’s good luck.  But either way, I’m now a lucky wife to @eurythmickingofnowhere. #adamsaysjess
Photo credit to the incredible @genevieveleiperphotography
view all 96 comments
Add a comment... Instagram
Social Media Presence
In addition to her career, Jessica is active across many of the most popular social media sites, which she uses not only to promote her job but also to share various other contents with her fans. So, she runs her official Instagram account, on which she has almost 2,000 followers, as well as her official Twitter account, having more than 11,000 fans. Jessica even has her own website, on which you can find more information about her professional career.