Clifford Car Alarms UK - Alarm Accessories, Keys & Remotes for Clifford Car Alarm Systems
UK Products - Accessories
DB ALL Kit Databus all Interface Module
The DB-ALL is an all in one door lock and override module that covers over 95% of cars on the road. It will support legacy systems like VATS and PASSLOCK more...
556UW - Universal Remote Start Interface With Selectable Windings
The 556UW remote start immobilizer interface module is used when installing remote start products in vehicles equipped with an immobilizer system more...
XKLOADER2 - 2nd Gen XPRESSKIT Computer Programming tool
THIS IS A DEALER ONLY TOOL that acts as a bridge between your pc & an upgradeable, XPRESSKIT vehicle interface module more...
PKE 2102T Passive Keyless Entry
'PKE', or Passive Keyless Entry is a very popular feature on later model high end vehicles, but thanks to Directed, it's now available for your own car more...
Clifford INTELLISTART 4 Remote Engine Start
The ultimate convenience accessory, Suitable for manual and automatic gearboxes the IntelliStart 4 allows you to start the car before you get in more...
Clifford BlackJax 5 Anti Car Jacking Security System
Stand-alone anti-hijacking system, BlackJax has already saved lives, not just vehicles. You should do nothing in a volatile hijack situation except get out of your car more...
Clifford CliffNet Wizard
For the ultimate in G5 system and accessory control, download CliffNet Wizard version 2.2. CliffNet Wizard gives you real-time control of your G5 system and G4 / G5 accessories via your PC more...
Clifford 620C Flashing Electro Luminescent Indicator
Electro-luminescent Blue Glowing LED. Less than 1/8 of an inch  thick and includes all parts. Perfectly designed to mount onto vehicle windshields or side doors more...
Viper 620V Flashing Electro Luminescent Indicator
Electro-Luminescent Indicator features extremely low current draw and high visibility  bright blinking panel for security & hybrid systems more...
508D Double-Guard Proximity Sensor
Set this sensitive dual-zone sensor to trigger a chirp when someone enters a warning zone outside your vehicle, then trigger a full alarm when the second inner zone is violated more...
509U Ultrasonic Sensor Module
The 509U ultrasonic sensor monitors the airspace inside your vehicle and is sophisticated enough to detect subtle window/doorlock tampering more...
507T Digital Tilt / Motion Sensor
Tilt/Motion Sensor - 1° or 3° Tilt Sensitivity - Adjustable Motion Sensitivity: Off, Low, Medium, and High Settings - Adjustable Arming Timer more...
530T Power Window Automation System Car Alarms
Control your power windows from your remote control - Roll up windows upon arming - Roll down or vent with an auxiliary channel - 2-Window Kit more...
MTM1-689 Neutral Safety Module for Manual Transmissions
Neutral safety module for manual transmissions - Prevents manual transmission vehicles from remote starting while in gear more...
451M Door Lock Relay Module
Door lock relay module with resistors 451M - Compatible with most Directed Electronics systems - 3-Pin plug interface with DEI system  - Will interface with most electric power door lock systems more...
8600 Micro Magnetic Switch
Compact, magnetic switch - Adhesive pre-applied with leads - Normally closed when contacts are apart more...
8601 Micro Magnetic Switch
Magnetic Switch sensor great for tail gates, fuel door, struts, grills, fog lamps, tool boxes, camper shell, slider windows, trailers, and more!
    Normally open or closed circuits more...
909200 - G5 SMARTSTART Interface / Module
This interface is required when the new Smartstart module (DSM250) is being connected to the  Clifford G5 Alarms (ie Concept 650) more...
905020 Valet Button
Clifford 905020 Valet Button, Switch for G4 and G5 Systems - Works with Clifford G4 and G5 Systems Only more...
502T Closed Loop Sensor
Triggers when connection is broken, not established - Useful for protecting trailers, toolboxes, etc. - Positive and negative trigger outputs more...