Refracting Telescope Facts
Home > Facts > Space Facts >  Refracting Telescope Facts
Refracting Telescope Facts
Refracting Telescope Facts
A refracting telescope, or refractor, is one that uses lenses to produce an image.  These types of telescopes were the first to be used and were developed in 1608.  They were mainly used as spyware.  During the following year, Galileo improved the refracting telescope and used it to study the sky.  Basically a refracting telescope uses an eyepiece and a lens to gather more light in order to construct a brighter and clearer picture of an object.
Interesting Refracting Telescope Facts:
The largest refracting telescope in the world is in Wisconsin.
The largest refracting telescope was built in 1897.
The largest size of any one lens in a refracting telescope is 1 meter.
Refractors are outdated because their image can sometimes be distorted and blurred.
Although refracting telescopes are seemingly outdated, they are the better option for a beginning sky observer.
The refracting telescope that was used by Galileo was less than 2 inches long.
The farther apart the lenses are inside of refractor, the clearer the image will be.
At one point, Johannes Hevelius built a refractor that was 158 feet long and was very difficult to use.
In 1733, an achromatic lens was developed that corrected some of the distortion of the normal refractor lens.
Refractor telescopes should be no longer than 40 inches in order to be easy to use.
There are two lenses inside of a refractor: a concave lens and a convex lens.
The concave lens inside a refractor focuses the light given off by an object into one focus point.
The convex lens inside of a refractor is used to spread out the light from the concave lens in order to see a clearer view of a faraway object.
Although refractor lens are still used in small telescopes, they are better used in binoculars and gun scopes.
Galileo's best refractor was able to magnify an object 30 times.
Related Links:
Facts
Space Facts
Animals Facts
Space
Galileo Galilei Facts
Hubble Space Telescope Facts
Solar System Facts
Spitzer Space Telescope Facts
Telescope Facts
Copernicus Timeline
<a href="https://www.softschools.com/facts/space/refracting_telescope_facts/432/">Refracting Telescope Facts</a>