Joy-Ann Reid Bio - Married, Net Worth, Career, Salary, Husband, Controversy, MSNBC, and News Anchor
Home
Biography
Joy-Ann Reid
Joy-Ann Reid Biography
Biography by Clarence Published on 16 Aug, 2021 Updated on 16 Aug, 2021
Joy-Ann Reid's Personal Life
Facts of Joy-Ann Reid
Date of Birth:
1968 , December-8
Age:
53 years old
Birth Nation:
United States of America
Height:
5 Feet 9 Inch
Name
Joy-Ann Reid
Birth Name
Joy-Ann M. Lomena-Reid
Nick Name
Joy-Ann Reid
Nationality
American
Birth Place/City
Brooklyn, New York City, New York
Ethnicity
African-American
Profession
Correspondent
Working For
Television
Net Worth
$1.5 million
Eye Color
Black
Hair Color
Black
Face Color
Black
Famous for
Political commentator
Married
Yes
Married to
Jason Reid
Children
3
Divorce
N/A
Education
Harvard University (1991)
Awards
NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Host in a Talk, Reality, News/Information or Variety Series
TV Show
AM Joy
View more / View Less Facts of Joy-Ann Reid
Joy-Ann M. Lomena-Reid, an American television host and a national correspondent at MSNBC, is also a regular political commentator on both television and in publications including The Daily Beast.
In 2016, she was listed in the Hollywood Reporter’s one of the Political Pundits who was at the forefront of the cable-news conversations in 2016’s Presidential election. She published a nonfiction book titled Fracture: Barack Obama, the Clintons, and the Racial Divide (2016) , based on the recent history of the Democratic Party.
From 2017-18, she faced controversy after a series of what The New York Times called ‘h 0phobic posts on her defunct, decade-long blog resurfaced on social media.
Early Life And Education Of Joy-Ann Reid
Joy-Ann Reid was born on 8 December 1968, in Brooklyn, New York City. She belongs to the nationality American and her ethnicity is African-American.
Her father was from the Democratic Republic of Congo and her mother- a college professor and nutritionist from British Guiana. They met in a graduate school at the University of Lowa in Lowa City. Her parents divorced after a few years and he returned to the Congo.
Her mother then raised her alone in Denver, Colorado until the age of 17 when her mother pa s sed away due to breast cancer. Raid then moved to Flatbush, New York to live with an aunt. Reid graduated from Harvard University in 1991 with a concentration in film.
Joy-Ann Reid is an educated woman. She attended Harvard University for her education and she received her degree from there. Details on her childhood are not available right now.
She has already got her nomination for the NAACP Image Award for the category of Outstanding Host in a Talk, Reality, News/ Information, or Variety Series.
Joy-Ann Reid's Career
Joy-Ann Reid has worked for many networks and shows till now and she has done brilliantly in all of them. She is one of the guest hosts of The Rachel Maddow Show, the show of MSNBC anchor Rachel Maddow.
She is also a managing editor of a website called TheGrio.com. In the year 2003, she joined The Miami Herald and she worked there for a long period of time. She moved on from there in the year 2015. She also worked for The Reid Report from the year 2000 to the year 2014.
Joy-Ann Reid has also written books at times and they have done great business too. She wrote a book called Fracture: Barack Obama, the Clintons, and the Racial Divide. This book became a sensation and was loved all over the world.
Joy-Ann Reid's Net Worth
Joy-Ann Reid's estimated net worth is $1.5 million, as of 2018. She earns a good amount of salary at MSNBC. She has been very successful in her career and this has given her great earnings and wonderful net worth.
According to a source, an MSNBC journalist earns an average annual salary of $76K. But, she earns over than average salary as she is one of the experienced journalists in MSNBC.
She lives in a lavish mansion in Pembroke Pines, Florida. She lives there with her filmmaker husband Jason Reid. They owned this home previously but now they rent it from the current owners of the home. Reid couple also has an apartment on Manhattan’s Roosevelt Island.
Joy-Ann Reid's Controversy
In November 2017, a Twitter user reproduced Reid’s former blog post- Reid Report which she wrote between 2007-09. The report suggested that Florida’s then-Governor Charlie Crist was a closeted h 0sexual.
Following the criticism of the posts h 0phobic, she apologized, calling the posts ‘intensive, tone-deaf and dumb’. Crist responded by thanking Reid for her apology. After reviewing more posts from her old blog, Reid asked lawyers to investigate if her blog or its archives might have been hacked.
MSNBC also called her blog posts offensive and said her writings and Tweets were harmful to the LGBT community. In April 2018, she opened the edition of Am Joy with an apology, saying,
I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things because they are completely alien to me. But I can definitely understand, based on things I have tweeted and have written in the past, why some people don't believe me. I've not been exempt from being dumb or cruel or hurtful to the very people I want to advocate for. I own that. I get it. And for that, I am truly, truly sorry.
She also added that she hired cybersecurity experts to investigate if someone had manipulated her words and former blog but they have not proved it. They are still working on their best.
Joy-Ann Reid's Personal Life
Joy Ann-Reid is a married woman and has three children. She tied the knot to Jason Reid, Sr. Editor at Image Lab Films. He is also a doc u mentary film editor for the Discovery Channel.
The duo dated few years before the couple decided to get married and live happily as husband and wife. Joy and Reid got secretly married and even haven't revealed their wedding date and place.
The couple is going very strongly till now and there have been no chances of a divorce to occur in their lives. She has a total of three children as well and they mean the world to her.
MSNBC Should Really Fire Joy-Ann Reid
Watch on
MSNBC
correspondent
Net Worth
career
personal life
Husband