Jessica Dean - Bio, Age, Net Worth, Height, Married, Career, Instagram
Biographymask
Journalist
Jessica Dean
Jessica Dean
Journalist
#6262
Most Popular
Boost
Updated On January 28, 2022
Birthday
Aug 22,  1985
Birthplace
Little Rock, Arkansas , America
Age
36 years
Birth Sign
Leo
Popularity Bio By
Full Name:
Jessica Dean
Born Date:
22 Aug, 1985
Age:
36 years
Horoscope:
Leo
Lucky Number:
8
Lucky Stone:
Ruby
Lucky Color:
Gold
Best Match for Marriage:
Sagittarius, Gemini, Aries
Gender:
Female
Profession:
News Anchor
Country:
America
Height:
5 feet 4 inches (1.63m)
Marital Status:
married
Married Date:
October 24, 2009
Husband
Blake Rutherford
Net Worth
$800K
Eye Color
brown eyes
Hair Color
blonde hair
Body Size
34-28-35
Birth Place
Little Rock, Arkansas
Nationality
American
Ethnicity
White Caucasian
Religion
Christian
Education
University of California
Siblings
1
Facebook
Jessica Dean Facebook
Twitter
Jessica Dean Twitter
Instagram
Jessica Dean Instagram
IMDB
Jessica Dean IMDB
View more / View less Facts of Jessica Dean
Jessica Dean is an American reporter, journalist, and anchor famous as a host of CNN. Jessica Dean has been an important person in journalism during the presidential race and inauguration of Donald Trump in Washington D.C. She left the CBS anchor position in September 2018 and joined CNN in October 2018.
Table of Biography[show]
Early Life
Jessica Dean was born in Little Rock, Arkansas on August 22, 1985. Currently, Jessica is 35 years old and her zodiac sign is Leo. Jessica was raised with her sister named Rachael. Moreover, Jessica holds American nationality and belongs of white caucasian descent. Mary Tyler inspired Jessica during her childhood. Besides that, there is no more information regarding Jessica’s parents and early childhood life. Looking at Jessica’s success, we can assume that her parents raised her well in her hometown.
Talking about Jessica’s academic qualification, she graduated from the University of California in Broadcast Journalism and Arts. Besides that, there is other information about Jessica’s other academic achievements.
Professional life
Caption: Jessica Dean in HBO Max show On The Trail (Source: Instagram)
Jessica Dean started her first job in Arkansas after her graduation in 2006. During her childhood, Jessica was interested in watching the news and reading magazines. Jessica wanted to become Journalist and worked for KNWA/KFTA as a reporter in Fort Smith. Moreover, Jessica is a responsible and talented news reporter. She joined as a weekday evening anchor for CBS in August 2013. CBS named Jessica as a new member in September 2013.
Moreover, she anchored for Democratic National Convention for CBS3. Jessica co-anchored the CBS show Eyewitness News with Chris May and gained popularity. She co-hosted the popular CBS show The Talk with stars like Julie Chan, Sharon Osbourne, Sheryl Underwood, Aisha Tyler, Sara Gilbert, and many more. Jessica also covered Pope Francis’s visit to America from Rome and Philadelphia in 2015. Through her shows, she became a successful news anchor, reporter, and TV show host in the world.
In October 2018, Jessica left CBS Network and joined CNN. After that, Jessica worked as a General Assignment Reporter in CNN. She is doing excellent work in CNN. Jessica is working in Washington DC-based channel as a correspondent. She commented on Nikki Haley’s speech and provided expert opinion on Nikki’s exit from the White House.
Moreover, Jessica was a CNN Washington correspondent covering 2020 and Joe Biden during the presidential race. Jessica covered the presidential campaign and transition of President Joe Biden. She traveled across the country for the presidential campaign during a global pandemic. Currently, Jessica Dean is covering Capitol Hill as a congressional correspondent at CNN.
Achievements and Net Worth
Talking about Jessica’s awards and nominations, she hasn’t won any awards right now. Moreover, looking at Jessica’s success and popularity, we can presume that she will win some of them in the coming years.
Through her career as a journalist, Jessica has made a decent amount of money. Moreover, Jessica Dean’s estimated net worth is $800K US dollars.
Relationship Status
Caption: Jessica Dean with her husband Blake Rutherford (Source: The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette)
On October 24, 2009, Jessica married her husband Blake Rutherford an American commentator and advisor. Blake worked as an advisor for three attorney generals. He became famous during Barack Obama’s rule as a president in America. Blake has also worked with Hillary Clinton during her campaign in the Little Rock area. The couple currently lives in Washington DC and manage to spent time with each other.
Talking about Jessica’s rumors and controversy, she’s not been part of them. Besides that, Jessica is focused on her personal and professional life. Moreover, Jessica likes to keep a distance from the rumors and the controversy.
Body Measurement and Social media
Caption: Jessica Dean body measurement (Source: BiographyPedia)
Jessica Dean’s weight is 55 Kg and her height is 5 feet 4 inches. Moreover, Jessica’s bra size is 33B and her body measurements are 34-28-35. Besides that, Jessica has blonde hair and brown eyes.
Jessica Dean is pretty active on social media platforms like Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. On Jessica’s Instagram, she has 3297 followers. Jessica has over 8.5K followers on her Facebook page and over 20.2K followers on Twitter.
Jessica Dean Fans Also Viewed
Cadence Bridges
Elizabeth Woods
Johnny Utah
Tate Martell
Jorge Linares
Dakota Goyo
More Leo
Michael Pittman Sr
Anthony Rizzo
Leo