Mary Ann Ahern NBC, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Mary Ann Ahern NBC, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Chicago, Salary, and Net Worth
February 24, 2021 Bella JOURNALISTS 0
Mary Ann Ahern Bio, Wiki
Mary Ann Ahern (Full name: Mary Ann Bergerson Ahern) is an American journalist and reporter. She serves as a Political Reporter since 2006 at NBC5 News in Chicago. Ahern joined the station in March 1989. She has covered political campaigns from the White House to Springfield to Chicago. Ahern witnessed the transitions from Mayor Richard Daley to Mayor Lori Lightfoot and traveled through the primary states for the 2008, 2012, 2016 presidential campaigns.
Additionally, Ahern has covered presidential election nights from Texas, New York Boston, and Chicago and presidential inaugurations from Washington, D.C. She has also covered the selections of Pope Benedict and Francis. Before joining NBC 5, Ahern served as a political reporter for TV stations in Atlanta and Peoria, IL.
Mary Ann Ahern Date Of Birth
She was born in 1954 in Michigan City, U.S. Ahern is 66 years old.
Mary Ann Ahern Height
She is a woman of average stature. Ahern stands at a height of 5 ft 5 in (Approx. 1.6 m).
Ahern’s photo
Mary Ann Ahern Family
Ahern was born in Michigan City, the United States to her parents. She also has two older brothers who went to John Carroll like her. However, Ahern has not revealed the names of her parents and siblings.
Mary Ann Ahern Husband
Ahern is married to her husband Thomas. Together, the couple has three children named Mary Ahern, Barbara Jean, and Patricia Ahern. Ahern and Thomas sold their three-bedroom, 3,007-square-foot house in Skokie for $575,000 on May 24, 2019.
Ann Ahern Education
She attended John Carroll University in 1972 and graduated with a B.A. degree. Subsequently, Ahern received her Master’s degree in Education from Northeastern Illinois University. She was also teaching at two Chicago area high schools while earning a master’s degree in Journalism from Northwestern University in 1982.
Mary Ann Ahern NBC
Ahern serves as a Political Reporter since 2006 at NBC5 News in Chicago. She joined the station in March 1989. She has covered political campaigns from the White House to Springfield to Chicago. Ahern witnessed the transitions from Mayor Richard Daley to Mayor Lori Lightfoot and traveled through the primary states for the 2008, 2012, 2016 presidential campaigns. Additionally, Ahern has covered presidential election nights from Texas, New York Boston, and Chicago and presidential inaugurations from Washington, D.C.
She has also covered the selections of Pope Benedict and Francis. Before joining NBC 5, Ahern served as a political reporter for TV stations in Atlanta and Peoria, IL. Prior to joining NBC 5, she served as the political reporter for WXIA-TV in Atlanta, Ga., from 1985 to 1989. Ahern also served as a reporter/weekend anchor at WEEK-TV in Peoria, Ill. from 1982 to 1985. Ahern achieved several Emmy awards for news coverage and in 2012 she received the Peter Lisagor Lifetime Achievement Award from the Chicago Headline Club.
Ahern’s colleagues at NBC5 include:
Pete Sack – weathercaster
Regina Waldroup – general assignment reporter
Lisa Chavarria – general assignment reporter
Marion Brooks – anchor
Kate Chappell – anchor and reporter
Tom And Ann Ahern
Tom (Thomas) is the husband of Ahern. Together, they have three children.
Mary Ann Ahern Salary
She serves as a Political Reporter at NBC 5. There is no doubt therefore, she receives hefty earnings. The estimated salary of Ahern is $85, 734 per year.
Mary Ann Ahern Net Worth
Kate has worked as a journalist for many years. There is no doubt therefore, she has amassed a decent fortune over the years. The estimated net worth of Ahern is $ 1 million.
How Old Is Ann Ahern
She was born in 1954, thus, Ahern is 66 years old.
Is Ann Ahern Married
Yes. Ahern is married to her husband Thomas. Together, the couple has three children named Mary Ahern, Barbara Jean, and Patricia Ahern.
Be the first to comment