Alayna Treene Axios, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, & Net Worth
Alayna Treene Axios, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Ann JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Alayna Treene Bio, Wiki
Alayna Treene Alayna Treene is a popular American journalist. As of now, Alayna works as a Congressional Reporter for Axios since January 2021 and a political analyst at MSNBC.
She covers the Biden presidency, Congress, and elections. She also worked as a White House reporter for Axios. Before, Alayna worked as a First Word, Stocks Intern at Bloomberg and a London TV News Desk, Intern at Bloomberg LP.
Alayna Treene Age
Alayna was born on September 8, 1994, in Skillman, New Jersey, in the United States. Alayna celebrates her birthday on September 8th, every year.
Alayna Treene Height
She is a woman of average stature. Alayna stands at a height of 5 ft 6 in (Approx. 1.65 m).
Treene’s photo
Alayna Treene Family
She was born and brought up in Skillman, New Jersey, to her caring and loving father and mother. Alayna is the proud daughter of David and Lauren. She has two sisters namely Lauren Lally and Juliana whom she adores much.
Alayna Treene Husband
Alayna is in a relationship as per her Instagram post in 2018 with her boyfriend Ben Roback. At the moment, Alyna has not mentioned any details regarding if she and Ben are still together or when the two will get engaged.
Treene Education
After completing her primary and high school education, Alayna attended George Washington Campus in 2012. Later on, in 2016, Alayna graduated from George Washington University in earning a BA in journalism and mass communications.
Alayna Treene Axios
Alayna works as a Congressional Reporter for Axios since January 2021 and a political analyst at MSNBC. She covers the Biden presidency, Congress, and elections. She also worked as a White House reporter for Axios. Before, Alayna worked as a First Word, Stocks Intern at Bloomberg and a London TV News Desk, Intern at Bloomberg LP.
She began her career working as an editorial intern at CBS News, Variety, and at Bloomberg News in London. Alayna came to Axios as a staff reporter in 2016 previously she worked as an associate news editor in 2018.
She became appointed a White House and national political reporter reporting the Trump administration and the impeachment inquiry in 2018. She has appeared as a political analyst at C-SPAN, Fox News, CBS News as well as MSNBC. Alayna is also a co-author of the weekly Axios Sneak Peek newsletter and covers Capitol Hill, the Biden administration as well as elections.
Alayna Treene Salary
She is an Axios correspondent. Therefore, Alayna earns a decent salary as a Congressional Reporter for Axios since January 2021 and a political analyst at MSNBC. Alayna’s average salary is $59,528 per year.
Alayna Treene Net Worth
Alayna is a Congressional Reporter for Axios since January 2021 and a political analyst at MSNBC. Therefore, Alayna has accumulated a decent fortune over the years she has worked. Alayna’s estimated net worth is $636,375.
Is Alayna Treene Married
Alayna is in a relationship as per her Instagram post in 2018 with her boyfriend Ben Roback. At the moment, Alyna has not mentioned any details regarding if she and Ben are still together or when the two will get engaged.
Who Is Alayna Treene
Alayna works as a Congressional Reporter for Axios since January 2021 and a political analyst at MSNBC. She covers the Biden presidency, Congress, and elections. She also worked as a White House reporter for Axios. Before, Alayna worked as a First Word, Stocks Intern at Bloomberg and a London TV News Desk, Intern at Bloomberg LP.