Arlette Saenz CNN Husband, Age, Salary: Who Is She Married To?
Home » Celebrity List » Arlette Saenz CNN Husband, Age, Salary: Who Is She Married To?
Celebrity List
Arlette Saenz CNN Husband, Age, Salary: Who Is She Married To?
Author: BhishuAcharya
Published Date : June 13, 2021
source: https://instagram.com
Table Of Content
10 Facts on Arlette Saenz:
Arlette Saenz is a CNN journalist who has been working as a political reporter there since September 2018. She had actually started her career back in May 2005 when she was appointed the Summer Director of San Antonio at National Student Partnerships. Then, she worked as an intern for three different television channels - ABC News Nightline, WOAI-TV, and the University of Notre Dame Office of News and Information .
Name
Arlette Saenz
Birthday
April 22, 1983
Age
37 years
Gender
Female
Height
5 feet and 5 inches
Nationality
American
Profession
Journalist
Net Worth
$700 thousand
Salary
$153 thousand - $112 thousand per year
Education
University of Notre Dame
Instagram
@arlettesaenz
Twitter
@ArletteSaenz
She had finally gained popularity when she joined ABC News in August 2007. But, she left the television channel after working for 11 years and joined CNN in September 2018. Who is she married to? Arlette Saenz currently remains unmarried as stated by Edaily Buzz and also, there is nothing to know about her future husband right now.
arlettesaenz
Wilmington, Delaware
View profile
arlettesaenz
390 posts
                  ·
                  6,950 followers
View more on Instagram
Comment Share Save
548 likes
arlettesaenz
Back on the trail and reunited with producer extraordinaire @_jjsimon_ after three months apart!
view all 19 comments
Add a comment... Instagram
10 Facts on Arlette Saenz:
Arlette Saenz reported a same-sex wedding back in August 2016 which was officiated by Joe Biden at his own house.
Since she was born on April 22, 1983, her current age is 37 years as of 2020.
As she was born in Brownsville, Texas, USA, her nationality is American and we have found out that her ethnicity is Hispanic.
Moreover, the estimated net worth of Arlette Saenz is approximately $700 thousand and she earns around $153 thousand - $112 thousand per year.
Moving on to her education, she had completed her BA degree in American Studies from the University of Notre Dame .
Currently, we have no idea about Arlette Saenz's family life and thus, we have not mentioned anything about her parents and siblings.
When she was at ABC News, she had first worked as a senior desk. Later, she was promoted to Digital journalist, and finally, she had worked as a White House reporter.
Speaking about her social media presence, we can find her active on Instagram (5 thousand followers) and Twitter (20.9 thousand followers).
Furthermore, she stands at a height of 5 feet and 5 inches.
However, we have not been able to fetch her weight and other body measurements yet.
Last Modified: December 28, 2020
Scottish football player Walter Smith is pronounce
Internet surfers have recently looked for Gore gifs th