The First Telescopes (Cosmology: Tools)
The 

              First Telescopes
By 

        taking our sense of sight far beyond the realm of our forebears' imagination, 

        these wonderful instruments, the telescopes, open the way to a deeper 

        and more perfect understanding of nature.
—René 

        Descartes, 1637
I n 

        the early 17 th century, craftsmen and scientists introduced a new tool for studying the heavens. 

        The telescope, one of the central instruments of the Scientific Revolution, 

        soon became the astronomer's most essential tool. Now the astronomer could 

        see countless stars and other faint objects never before visible. Suddenly 

        the universe was no longer limited to what the naked eye could see. As 

        telescopes improved, astronomers continued to push back the boundaries 

        of the known universe, peering ever deeper into the surrounding sea of 

        stars known as the Milky Way.
The 

        Invention
The manufacture 

        and properties of lenses were known since the time of the Greeks. Islamic 

        scholars such as the Egyptian physician Alhazen (born in the 10 th century) made important contributions to the study of optics. However, 

        lenses were not introduced to Europe until around the 13 th century. By 1300, the first eyeglasses were available in cities such as 

        Venice and Florence, and advances in lens making and polishing soon followed. 

        The tools for making a telescope were therefore available but, for reasons 

        that are not clear, the invention of the telescope had to wait.
T he 

        telescope first appeared in the Netherlands. In October 1608, the national government in The Hague 

        discussed a patent application for a device that aided "seeing faraway 

        things as though nearby." It consisted of a convex and concave lens in 

        a tube. The combination magnified objects three or four times. The government 

        found the device too easy to copy and did not award a patent, but it voted 

        a small award to Jacob Metius and employed Hans Lipperhey to make several 

        binocular versions, for which he was well paid.
The 

          earliest known illustration of a telescope. Giovanbattista
della Porta included this sketch in a letter written in August 1609.
The 

        Pleiades as drawn by Galileo (from Sidereus Nuncius)
Galilean 

        telescope
A 

        Galilean type refracting telescope.
The 

        telescope (along with the microscope, another 17 th century 

        invention) demonstrated that ordinary observers could see things that 

        the Greek philosophers had not dreamed of. It helped shift authority in 

        the observation of nature from men to instruments.
Galileo's 

        Optic Tube
N ews 

        of the telescope's invention spread rapidly through Europe. By April 1609, three-powered spyglasses 

        could be bought in spectacle-makers' shops on the Pont Neuf in Paris, 

        and four months later there were several in Italy. They were made famous 

        by an Italian professor and experimenter named Galileo Galilei in the 

        summer of 1609 at the University of Padua near Venice.
While Galileo 

        did not invent the telescope, he did design and build telescopes with 

        increasingly higher magnifying power for his own use and to present to 

        his patrons. He was a skilled instrument maker, and his telescopes were 

        known for their high quality.
Galileo's 

        first telescope was basically a tube containing two lenses. His first 

        attempt was a three-power instrument; this was followed by one that magnified 

        objects approximately nine times. He showed the latter device to the Venetian 

        senate, hoping to impress them with its commercial and military potential.
Observations with 

        Galileo's telescope strengthened the new idea that the Earth and the planets 

        circled the Sun. It also revealed multitudes of stars in the Milky Way 

        and elsewhere. One seemed to see not a fixed sphere of stars, but a universe 

        of stars extending outward to some vast and unknown distance, perhaps 

        to infinity.
Galileo's 

              telescopes
L ike 

        the earlier Dutch versions, Galileo's refracting telescopes 

        ("refractors") used lenses to bend, or refract, light. They 

        featured a concave 

        eyepiece lens and a convex objective lens. The telescope was fairly 

        simple to make. Galileo, however, faced difficulties finding clear and 

        homogenous glass for his lenses. The glass was full of little bubbles 

        and had a greenish tinge (caused by the presence of iron impurities). 

        This was a problem that troubled telescope makers for centuries. It was 

        also hard to shape the lenses perfectly. The images of stars were blurry, 

        and surrounded by color haloes.
The limiting 

        factor of these early refractors was their small field of view. Only part 

        of the full Moon, for example, could be seen at one time. Galileo himself 

        continued to improve his devices until they were over four feet long and 

        could magnify up to thirty times.
Who 

        was
Galileo Galilei?
What 

        Galileo saw with his telescopes
Keplerian 

        telescope
A 

        Keplerian type refracting telescope.
Kepler's 

        Variation on the Telescope
A variation 

        on the Galilean telescope was suggested by Johannes Kepler in his 1611 

        book Dioptrice. He noted that a telescopic device could be built 

        using two convex lenses, but the image it produced would be upside down.
T he 

        advantage of this design, according to Kepler, was its larger field of view and 

        high magnification. His recommendation was not immediately taken up by 

        astronomers, however. The Keplerian telescope was not accepted until Christoph 

        Scheiner, a German Jesuit mathematician interested in instruments, published 

        his 1630 book Rosa Ursina.
Sunspot 

              plate from Schneiner's Tres Epistolae
For his 

        study of sunspots, Scheiner experimented with telescopes having only convex 

        lenses. He found that when he viewed an object directly through such an 

        instrument the image was flipped upside down. But it was much brighter 

        and the field of view much larger than in a Galilean telescope, as Kepler 

        had predicted. Since for astronomical observations an inverted image is 

        no problem, the advantages of what became known as the "astronomical telescope" 

        led to its general acceptance in the science community by the middle of 

        the 17 th century.
Hevelius and 60-foot telescope
Telescopic 

        Oddities
One disadvantage 

        of the astronomical telescope suggested by Kepler and advocated by Scheiner 

        was that its higher magnification was accompanied by more spherical and 

        chromatic aberration - geometric distortion and false colors. Over the 

        next several decades, lens-grinding and polishing techniques improved 

        gradually. A specialized craft community of telescope makers slowly developed. 

        These craftsmen worked to produce better spherical lenses with decreased 

        curvature (and a longer focal 

        length) which improved the quality of telescopes but made them longer.
The 

              150-foot telescope at Danzig
F rom 

      the typical Galilean telescope of 5 or 6 feet in length, astronomical telescopes grew to lengths 

      of 15 or 20 feet by the middle of the 17 th century. A typical 

      astronomical telescope of this time was the one made in 1656 by Christiaan 

      Huygens, a Dutch mathematician and astronomer, and his brother Constantine. 

      23 feet long, it magnified objects about a hundred times, and still had 

      a considerable field of view. One of the most spectacular objects that Christiaan 

      Huygens was able to view with their telescope was the great Orion Nebula.
In 

        the sword of Orion are three stars quite close together. In 1656 I chanced 

        to be viewing the middle of one of these with a telescope, instead of 

        a single star twelve showed themselves (a not uncommon occurrence). Three 

        of these almost touched each other, and with four others shone through 

        the nebula, so that the space around them seemed far brighter than the 

        rest of the heavens, which was entirely clear and appeared quite black, 

        the effect being that of an opening in the sky through which a brighter 

        region was visible.
—Huygens, 

        1659
An even 

        larger "long-focus" telescope was described by the German astronomer 

        Johannes Hevelius in his 1673 book Machinae Coelestis. He made 

        telescopes with focal lengths as long as 150 feet and lenses up to 8 inches 

        in diameter. Their value as research tools was questionable, however, 

        since the telescope's frame flexed and vibrated in the slightest breeze.
Hevelius's 

        rooftop observatory
(from 1673 book Machina Coelestis)
Huygens's 

              aerial telescope
The Huygens 

        brothers also developed "aerial telescopes." These featured 

        an objective lens mounted in an iron tube at the top of a tall pole. The astronomer raised 

        and lowered this and found the image by trial and error. A compound eyepiece 

        on a little stand was then positioned to receive the image cast by the 

        objective. Although astronomers made some discoveries with these telescopes, 

        their usefulness was limited - alignment on windy nights, for example, 

        was difficult - and their design cumbersome.
By the 

        beginning of the 18th century, very long refracting telescopes were rarely 

        used any more. Further increases of power came, beginning in the mid-17 th century, from a new form of telescope - the reflecting telescope.
Copyright © 2022.
Brought 

      to you by the
Center 

      for History of Physics, 

      a Division of the
American 

      Institute of Physics