The 5 Most Powerful Telescopes, and 5 That Will Define the Future of Astronomy
1
JWST's First Images Are NASA's Greatest Work Yet
2
Aliens Could Send Us Quantum Messages From Space
3
The Best PickupTrucks of 2022
4
How to Build a DIY Zip Line in Your Own Backyard
5
Take 60% Off These Top-rated JBL Earbuds Right Now
The 5 Most Powerful Telescopes, and 5 That Will Define the Future of Astronomy
2009 is the International Year of Astronomy, celebrating the 400th anniversary of Galileo turning a looking glass to the sky and shaking up humanity's view of the heavens. Then, puny telescopes could see moons, planets and the occasional celestial body. Today, huge lenses like those in the Large Binocular Telescope in Arizona and the Hubble Space Telescope in orbit probe the deepest reaches of the universe. Here are the five most powerful telescopes out today, and five more that will define the future of astronomy.
By Andrew Moseman
Jan 23, 2009
2009 has been deemed the International Year of Astronomy thanks to the 400th anniversary of Galileo's astounding space observations that changed the way humans views the sky. To celebrate, 17 radio telescopes across five continents coordinated for over 33 consecutive hours last week to observe three different quasars—supermassive black holes, each of which lies at the heart of a galaxy. This is the first time that those antennae across the world have been linked in real time through high-speed optical networks. Who said astronomers don't know how to party?
While Galileo's small looking glass was capable of magnifying objects about 20 to 30 times, today astronomers employ enormous optical telescopes to gather space's visible light, as well as telescopes capable of measuring radiation across the electromagnetic spectrum—from gamma rays emitted by pulsars to long radio waves from the deepest regions of space. Today's best telescopes are astounding feats—and astronomers are improving them constantly. Here are the five most powerful telescopes out today—and five more that will define the future of astronomy.
The Five Most Powerful Telescopes Today
Keck Observatory, began science operations in 1993
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: Caltech and the University of California
Location: Mauna Kea, Hawaii
Claim to Fame: On the isolated big island of Hawaii sit Keck's twin telescopes, each 10 meters (about 33 ft) in diameter. When they were built in the early 1990s they became the largest such spans in the world. Keck's advanced adaptive optics paved the way for computer-driven mirrors that can be adjusted multiple times per second to make up for atmospheric disturbances in real time.
Fun Fact: Though the Keck Observatory is more than 15 years old, it has essentially the same design and setup of the more monstrous telescopes under planning or construction, says Caltech's Chuck Steidel, one of the designers of the proposed Thirty Meter Telescope. "Keck Observatory is the prototype of the next generation," he told PM.
Hubble Space Telescope, launched in 1990
Media Platforms Design Team
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
Organization: NASA and the European Space Agency
Location: Orbiting the Earth
Claim to Fame: By capturing iconic images such as the deep field, Crab Nebula and Eagle Nebula, Hubble has become the world's most famous telescope. The final space shuttle mission to Hubble has encountered multiple delays, but now is planned to launch in May. It will upgrade the telescope with enough new gear to keep it running and viable into 2020, until its successor is ready for the stage.
Fun Fact: At 20 years old, Hubble runs on some old-school computing technology, including a relatively ancient Intel 486 processor. Hubble is one of NASA's four "great observatories"—the others include the Chandra X-Ray Observatory, Spitzer Space Telescope and Compton Gamma Ray Observatory.
Spitzer Space Telescope, launched in 2003
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: NASA, JPL and Caltech
Location: Following the Earth around the sun
Claim to Fame: Spitzer is the last of NASA's four great observatories in space. But unlike its older sibling, Hubble, which images mostly in visible light, Spitzer looks in infrared. So the telescope not only sees at a frequency that we can't, it does so while trailing the Earth at about 0.1 AU (1 astronomical unit is the mean distance between the Earth and sun, or about 92,956,000 miles), thus free from atmospheric distortion.
Fun Fact: Spitzer first spied the evidence of "hot Jupiters"—gas giants exoplanets roasting on one side and cool on the other. And though facing its impending demise, Spitzer isn't through yet. NASA estimated in 2007 that the telescope would exhaust its onboard helium supply this April, but in August the Spitzer team compiled this stunning image of multiple generations of star formation.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
Large Binocular Telescope, first light in October 2005
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: U.S., Japan and Germany collaboration
Location: Mount Graham, southeastern Arizona
Claim to Fame: The Large Binocular Telescope shows that two lenses are better than one. The LBT's two 8.4-meter (about 28-ft) spans work together to provide as much resolution as would be derived from a single 11.8-meter mirror, and are 10 times more powerful than Hubble's.
Fun Fact: This lonely mountaintop is a great place for undisturbed viewing, but the observatory's location has proven problematic for other reasons. Environmentalists wanted the site moved to protect the peak's native red squirrels. Some Native Americans from the Apache tribe opposed the telescope, saying that Mount Graham was a sacred cultural site for them. And in both 1996 and 2004, wildfires raged dangerously close to the observatory, but left it unscathed.
Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope, launched in 2008
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: NASA, the U.S. Department of Energy, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Sweden
Location: Low Earth orbit
Claim to Fame: It measures the most powerful radiation in the universe. Supermassive black holes, the collisions of neutron stars and some supernovae produce bursts of gamma rays that carry far more energy than anything possible on Earth. Thankfully, the Earth's atmosphere shields us from this cosmic barrage, so any telescope seeking to measure gamma rays must do so from orbit.
Fun Fact: Even NASA was not a fan of this mouthful of a name. The mission was formerly called the Gamma Ray Large Area Space Telescope (and dubbed with the gruff acronym GLAST), until NASA asked for suggestions that better captured the telescope's mission to investigate some of the universe's strangest phenomena. They eventually renamed the telescope after 20th-century physicist Enrico Fermi, and have taken to calling it simply "Fermi."
Five Telescopes to Define the Future
The Kepler Mission, planned for April 2009 launch
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: NASA
Location: Somewhere within 0.5 AU of Earth
Claim: Kepler will be a planet hunter—its strict goal is to find Earth-like worlds. To locate them, the telescope is looking for transits—times when terrestrial-size planets cross in front of their star, temporarily darkening it. If the darkening is just the right amount, and happens on a regular schedule, that could be evidence of an Earth-sized world.
Fun Fact: Rather than staying in Earth orbit, Kepler will trail our home world, following it around the sun. This allows the telescope to escape the turbulence of Earth's gravity, and keeps it off of the planetary plane, which would allow it to see farther into space without interference from the sun, the moon or the Earth.
The Atacama Large Millimeter/Submillimeter Array, opening in 2012
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: Science Agencies from North America, Europe and Japan
Location: 16,000 ft up in the Chilean Andes
Claim: When this array of 66 radio antennas spread across 10 miles opens, it will be the world's most advanced radio telescope.
Fun Fact: If you think building a radio array is easy, try doing it in the Andes. Later this year, two 1400-hp transport vehicles, balanced with hydraulic auto-leveling, will begin ferrying the antennas up to the site of the array, 16,500 ft above sea level. Workers will be allowed to stay up in that thin air for 8 hours at most. Installing each antenna will take a crew 3 months of work.
James Webb Space Telescope, coming in 2013
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: NASA, European Space Agency, Canadian Space Agency
Location: Earth orbit
Claim: James Webb Space Telescope will be the successor to Hubble, which, after almost two decades in space, is approaching the end of its life. But it won't be exactly the same—Hubble observes primarily the visible light range, while the James Webb's instruments focus mostly on infrared. The new telescope will have seven times the collecting power of its predeccesor, according to NASA.
Fun Fact: James Webb was the man who ran NASA from 1961 to 1968, during the prime years of the Apollo program's development. Though most famous for manned space exploration, he also promoted the Pioneer and Mariner unmanned programs, which brought the first flyby pictures of other planets.
Giant Magellan Telescope, beginning construction in 2011
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: A consortium of nine universities and research centers
Location: Las Campanas Observatory, near La Serena, Chile
Claim: Where the Large Binocular Telescope boasts two large mirrors working in tandem, the Giant Magellan raises the ante to seven mirrors, each 8.4 meters (about 28 ft) across. The Steward Observatory, which is inside the University of Arizona football stadium, is currently building the mirrors.
Fun Fact: The elevation and remoteness of the Chilean Andes makes for great stellar observation. ALMA is under construction nearby, the European Very Large Telescope also resides in Chile, and the Giant Magellan Telescope will be neighbors with its little siblings, the twin 6.5-meter Magellan Telescopes that began operation in the early 2000s.
Thirty-Meter Telescope, still in design stage
Media Platforms Design Team
Organization: Caltech, the University of California, and the Association of Canadian Universities for Research in Astronomy
Location: Chile or Hawaii, yet to be decided
Claim: As the name suggests, the telescope's main mirror would stretch 30 meters (about 98 ft) across. The main mirror is also segmented into 492 smaller ones, each capable of changing shape and position on the fly. TMT scientists plan to look back in time to the universe's early days to find out how galaxies and stars truly formed.
Fun Fact: Even if the Thirty Meter Telescope secures its funding, finishes construction and becomes the world's largest telescope, it might not hold the title for too long. The proposed European Extremely Large Telescope could have a span of 42 meters, and is right on the Thirty Meter Telescope's heels. That size is actually scaled down from the first design for the EELT, which called for a monumental 100-meter lens carrying the brash moniker of Overwhelmingly Large Telescope. That football-field-size telescope proposal turned out to be a bit too complex and expensive to build.
Andrew Moseman Site Director Andrew's from Nebraska.
More From Telescopes
JWST's First Images Are NASA's Greatest Work Yet
Webb Telescope Captures a Dying Star’s Last Dance
Sorry, Scientists Didn’t Find a Real Alien Signal
There’s a Free-Floating Black Hole in Our Galaxy
Micrometeoroid Strikes James Webb Space Telescope
This Natural Space Laser Is Older Than Earth
James Webb Telescope Is Almost as Cold as Space
NASA's Webb Telescope has Parked Itself at L2
The Best Telescopes of 2021
The Cutting Edge Space Telescope...of 1939
Pop Mech Pro