Margaret Talev Axios, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Margaret Talev Axios, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Dorcas JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Margaret Talev Bio | Wiki
Margaret Talev is an American anchor and reporter. She currently serves as the Managing Editor of Politics at Axios. At the same time, Margaret serves as the CNN political analyst. Her role at Axion networks is to oversee Axios’ White House, politics, and election coverage. Before that, Margaret served as a White House correspondent for Bloomberg News. While there, her major role was to cover U.S. politics and foreign policy.
She covered and reported on former USA president Barack Obama since 2007 when Obama began his presidential campaign. Previously, Margaret covered Congress, California, as well as Florida politics. Also, she has reported for the Tampa Tribune, the Sacramento Bee, McClatchy Newspapers,  and the Los Angeles Times.
In 2008,  Margaret was part of a three-member team that exposed the former USA president George W Bush administration’s politicization of the Justice Department. As a result of the coverage, Margaret and her team won the Scripps Howard Raymond Clapper Memorial Award.  Also, she was part of a reporting team that covered breaking news on the crash of Alaska Airlines Flight 261. The team’s coverage earned a finalist spot for the Pulitzer in 2001.
Margaret Talev Age
She was born on June 9, 1972, in the United States of America. Margaret is 49 years old.
Talev’s photo
Margaret Talev Height
She is a woman of average stature. Margaret stands at a height of 5 ft 5 in ( Approx 1.65m).
Margaret Talev Family
She was born to her father and mother on June 9, 1972, in the United States of America. Margaret’s parents moved to the USA from Bulgaria Europe immediately after their wedding. Margaret became the first American generation of her family. She is a native of Bulgaria who speaks both English and Bulgarian. Margaret says that it’s important for her to speak the language as a way of honoring her heritage.
Margaret Talev Married | Partner
She met her current husband, Ray Locker after she moved to Washington in the early 2000s. Bt then, Ray was working as a political reporter. Soon after, Margaret and Ray were husband and wife. However, she still uses her maiden name professionally. Before marrying Margaret, Ray was a divorcee and a father. After their wedding, Margaret became a stepmother to ay’s children. Later, Margaret and Ray were blessed with two daughters.
Margaret Talev  Education
She joined the University of Maryland at College Park in 1990. In 1994, Margaret graduated from the university earning a degree in Journalism and political science.
Margaret Talev Axios
She joined Axios Network in September 2019 as an Editor, While House correspondent, and Political analyst. Margaret held this role for 1 tear 5 months until Jan 2021. From there, she was promoted to become the network’s managing editor, politics, policy, and polling in Washington, District of Columbia. Margaret has been working on this post for the last 10 months. Prior to joining Axios, Margaret served as the Senior White House Correspondent for Bloomberg LP in Washington D.C. Metro Area.
She worked there for 8 years 3 months from Jun 2011 to Aug 2019. Previously, Margaret worked as the President White House Correspondents’ Association in Washington D.C. Metro Area. She held the position from Jul 2017 until Jul 2018. From 2012 to 2018, Margaret was a Board member for the same. Prior to that, Margaret was a White House Correspondent for McClatchy Newspapers in Washington, D.C.; Sacramento, California. She worked there from Aug 2002 to Jun 2011. She served in the 2008 campaign, was a Congress from 2005 to 2007, served as a Sacramento Bee political writer from 2002 to 2004.
Also, she covered the 2003 California recall election and Govs. Gray Davis and Arnold Schwarzenegger. From 2010 to 2011, Margaret worked for her Multimedia graduate certificate at the University of Maryland College Park, Md. While there, she was also online, social networking entrepreneurship. Prior to that, Margaret worked as a reporter for Los Angeles Times from 1999 to 2002. Previously, she worked as a reporter for The Tampa Tribune from Jan 1995 to May 1999. From 1991 to 1993, Margaret was an inter, call-screener, and producer for WRC Radio.
Margaret’s other colleagues at Axios Include:
Sara Fischer – media reporter
Margaret Talev Bulgaria | Ethnicity
She is a mother and a stepmother, wine and food enthusiast who feels proud of her Bulgarian heritage. Also, Margaret is an avid runner who spends most of her free time while chipping away at her first novel.  Margaret is a native of Bulgaria who speaks both English and Bulgarian. Margaret says that it’s important for her to speak the language as a way of honoring her heritage.
Margaret Talev Salary
She earns her income from her current job as the Managing Editor of Politics at Axios. Margaret has an average salary of $73,275 per year.
Margaret Talev Net Worth
She has accumulated good wealth from her career as a journalist. Margaret has an estimated net worth of $1,386,936.
Who Is Margaret Talev
Margaret is an American anchor and reporter. She currently serves as the Managing Editor of Politics at Axios. At the same time, Margaret serves as the CNN political analyst. Her role at Axion networks is to oversee Axios’ White House, politics, and election coverage.
Is Margaret Talev Married
Yes. Margaret married her husband, Ray Locker. They met each other after she moved to Washington in the early 2000s. Bt then, Ray was working as a political reporter. Soon after, Margaret and Ray were husband and wife. However, she still uses her maiden name professionally. Before marrying Margaret, Ray was a divorcee and a father. After their wedding, Margaret became a stepmother to ay’s children. Later, Margaret and Ray were blessed with two daughters.
How Old Is Margaret Talev
She is a 49-year-old American journalist who was born on June 9, 1972, in the United States of America.
Margaret Talev Instagram
Margaret Talev Twitter
Sara Fischer Axios, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Husband, Salary, and Net Worth
Felix Salmon Axios, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, Salary, and Net Worth