Clifford Security with Remote Start 5906X – Car Stereo Warehouse
Home Clifford Clifford Security with Remote Start Clifford Security with Remote Start 5906X
Clifford, Clifford Security with Remote Start
Clifford Security with Remote Start 5906X
Add to Wishlist
Compare
Color OLED 2-Way Security + Remote Start System
Responder HD features Clifford’s most advanced color remote, operating a one-mile range, 2-Way security and remote start system with an upgraded user interface, mini-USB charging port and patented menu wheel. No effort has been spared by the Clifford development team to create the ultimate color keychain remote control, operating Clifford’s top-of-the-line, one-mile range 2-Way vehicle security and remote start system.
Description
Reviews
Features
Up to one mile range*
Separate ESP2 and D2D ports
Directed SmartStart Compatible
4 auxiliary channels
Flex relay and selectable light flash priority**
Onboard remote start relays
Revenger® 6-tone siren
Stinger® DoubleGuard® Shock Sensor
Horn Honk**
Manual transmission compatible**
Rechargeable battery
Priority icon map with OLED display
Includes 1-Way companion remote
Technologies
SuperCode
SuperCode is the technology that defines the functionality of the Responder LE and the intelligence that drives its advanced features. Its protocol encompasses software-based system signal encryption (replacing hardware-based Clone Safe Code-Hopping). Multi-car operation is designed into the SuperCode protocol, so users will have all of the possible operations for two cars controllable by one remote. 2-way confirmations and notifications of many different events and commands have been designed into SuperCode, so all SuperCode-enabled 2-way systems can tell the user more about their vehicle than any other system on the market.
Responder HD
No effort has been spared by the Clifford development team to create the ultimate color keychain remote control, operating Python’s top-of-the-line, one-mile range 2-Way vehicle security and remote start system.
The result is Python Responder HD, winner of the coveted CES 2009 Innovations Award. Responder HD features Clifford’s most advanced color remote, operating a one-mile range, 2-Way security and remote start system with an upgraded user interface, mini-USB charging port and patented menu wheel.
SmartStart Compatible
If you already have a compatible Clifford remote start system in your car, the DSM300/DSM350 will add SmartStart capability to your system.
Now you can remote start or lock and unlock your car just by pushing a button on your Smartphone using the exciting new Clifford SmartStart app from Directed Electronics.
The simple graphical interface gives you control over the following features of your installed Clifford remote start or security/remote start system: Lock/arm, Unlock/disarm, Remote Start, Trunk release, Panic or car finder. You can also control multiple vehicles – great for families! – and assign more than one user to control a vehicle. It’s easy with SmartStart!
Categories: Clifford, Clifford Security with Remote Start Tag: Clifford