Brittany Bade Wikipedia, Age, Salary, Fox, Wedding, Reporter, Husband
Brittany Bade Wikipedia, Age, Salary, Fox, Wedding, Reporter, Husband and Biography
Admin 0
Brittany Bade
Contents hide
1 Brittany Bade Biography and Wiki
2 Brittany Bade Age and Birthday
3 Brittany Bade Education
4 Brittany Bade Family
5 Brittany Bade Boyfriend | Husband
6 Brittany Bade Career
7 Brittany Bade Salary
8 Brittany Bade Net Worth
9 Social Media
Brittany Bade Biography and Wiki
Brittany Bade is an American journalist who is currently the 9 pm and 10:30 pm anchor on FOX New Mexico. She also reports for KRQE at 10 pm. Brittany’s first job was at WBIR-TV in Knoxville, Tennessee.
Brittany Bade Age and Birthday
Bade was born on January 1, 1993, and brought up in Phoenix, Arizona, The United States of America. Her birth sign is Capricorn.
Brittany Bade Education
The Fox anchor graduated from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University. There, she covered everything from politics to the Department of Veterans Affairs scandal to education.
Brittany Bade Family
Brittany has a brother named Tyler Thomas Bade.
Her grandfather who has been married to Brittany’s grandma for 57 years told her that the key to success is to “Have fun, work hard, and enjoy your family.”
Brittany Bade Boyfriend | Husband
Bade is currently in a relationship with a guy named Nate. Nate is an adventurous soul and the couple is usually spotted out in the wild hiking.
Brittany Bade Photo
Brittany Bade Career
She spent six months in Washington, D.C. covering Arizona politicians and President Obama’s Executive Order on Immigration.
Brittany’s first assignment was at WBIR-TV in Knoxville, Tennessee. In her few years there, she covered the mass shooting in Chattanooga, TN that killed five military servicemen, a toxic train derailment that prompted the evacuation of 5,000 people, and the devastating Gatlinburg wildfires that killed 14 people and destroyed more than 4,000 structures.
Brittany moved to New Mexico in June of 2017. She is excited to explore more of the southwest. She loves to run, hike, travel and ski.
Brittany Bade Salary
Albuquerque, NM reporter/anchor salaries range from an average of $45,933 to $75,531. Nonetheless, these amounts may vary considerably according to the level of ranking of the employee in question.
Brittany Bade Net Worth
Bade has an estimated net worth of $130,000. This amount is from her career as a journalist working for the dual CBS/Fox-affiliated television station which is licensed to Albuquerque, New Mexico, United States. KRQE also serves the state capital of Santa Fe.
Social Media
Instagram