Lauren Gambino Net Worth, Bio, Age, Height, Nationality, Relationship
Home
Journalist
Lauren Gambino
Lauren Gambino
Lauren Gambino is a journalist, a political correspondent. Lauren was the one covering Hillary Clinton’s side of the race during the 2016 presidential election.
She began her journalism career as a state-owned reporter for the Associated Press Team in Salem, Oregon. As of 2020, she is a senior writer and correspondent for the Guardian News & Media Group.
10 facts for Lauren Gambino
Lauren Gambino is the next election analyst now based in Washington DC.
Her birth details and the location of her youth are revealed only to her peers. However, the youthful and gorgeous reporter appears to be between 25 and 30 years of age.
Lauran is also a founder of the International Women’s Media Foundation (IMWF). The group has participated in the news internationally, such as in Central and South Africa.
Lauren is very new to media attention and success. She has a long way to go on Wikipedia, however, we will find her information on IMWF.
Lauren is also the TV presenter of the Hall of Trivia entertainment program. She also co-hosts a weekly sitcom called OFFSIDES.
Moving on to her personal life, Lauren is a married man. The fortunate man/her husband is gone by the name of Peter Joseph Pernasilice III. However, not much information is disclosed about him except his name.
She has a Twitter account @laurenegambino with a new number of followers.
She’s mom to her pet dog named Burty, according to her Twitter. So far, the couple has no children in their family.
Lauren is also visible on the @lauren gambino account on Instagram.
Judging through her social media, Lauren likes to spend a lot of time on holiday and travel. However, her salary and specifics of her salary are yet to be reported by validated sources.
Facts of Lauren Gambino
Name
Lauren Gambino
Age
25-30
Gender
Female
Height
–
Nationality
American
Profession
Journalist
Married/Single
Married
Husband
Peter Joseph Pernasilice III
Education
Arizona State University
Instagram
@lauren_gambino
Twitter
@laurenegambino
Stevie Daniels
Elise Haas
Lauren Glassberg
Justin King
Storm Huntley