Blayne Alexander Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Wedding, Kids, Salary, NBC
Blayne Alexander Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Wedding, Kids, Salary, NBC
Posted by On 0 Comment
Blayne Alexander Photo
Blayne Alexander Biography
This is what you need to know about Blayne Alexander, an American award-winning Journalist currently working as a News correspondent for NBC News. Before joining NBC News Channel in February 2017, she spent six years as a reporter and anchor for 11Alive News.
Blayne Alexander Age
Alexander was born on March 4, 1977, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. As of 2021, she is 44 years old.
Blayne Alexander Height
Alexander stands at an average height of 5 feet 7 inches.
Blayne Alexander Ethnicity
Alexander belongs to African – American ethnicity.
Blayne Alexander Family
Alexander is a wife to James Bailey. She has not revealed any information about her parents and siblings, hence this information will be updated as soon as it’s available.
Blayne Alexander Husband
Alexander is happily married to her husband James Bailey since October 8, 2016. The two met in 2011, in Atlanta at the annual Mayor’s Ball.  Bailey proposed to Blayne in December 2015.
Blayne Alexander Salary
Alexander receives an approximate annual salary of $34,000 -$84,000. This is according to NBC News anchors/reporters’ salaries.
Blayne Alexander Net Worth
Alexander has an estimated Net Worth of $756,000. Her career as a News reporter is her primary source of income.
Blayne Alexander NBC News
Alexander is currently an American award-winning Journalist currently working as a News correspondent for NBC News. Before joining NBC News Channel in February 2017, she spent six years as a reporter and anchor for 11Alive News.
She is also a three-time Emmy Award nominee, Blayne has traveled the country to cover some of the biggest news events in recent history. Her first major assignment came in 2009 when she worked with a team of journalists to cover the historic inauguration of President Barack Obama – an assignment she would repeat four years later.
Most recently, Blayne spent days covering protests in Ferguson and Baltimore following the deaths of Michael Brown and Freddie Gray.
She also reported from Selma, Alabama as the eyes of the nation converged on the small town to celebrate the 50 th anniversary of Bloody Sunday. Blayne’s work has appeared nationally on MSNBC and The Weather Channel.
Read More
Vanessa Freeman Bio, Age, Height, Husband, Baby, Salary, PIX 11
This is what you need to know about Vanessa Freeman, an American former co-host and producer of Living Dayton, a WDTN 2 lifestyle show airing weekdays at 12noon. She c0-anchors alongside Shaun Kraisman. Before joining WDTN 2, She worked as a general assignment reporter in the Poconos for BRC TV-13.
The Famous Data
Elizabeth Dinh Bio, Age, Height, husband, Kids, Salary, KOIN 6
This is what you need to know about Elizabeth Dinh, an American – Vietnamese news anchor and reporter currently working for KOIN 6, Portland, Oregon as a news anchor since September 2020. Before joining KOIN 6 News, Dinh worked for  KPTV-TV in Portland, Oregon as a news anchor and reporter.
The Famous Data