Chris Cillizza Bio, Wiki, Net Worth, Married, Wife, Age, Height
Journalist
Chris Cillizza
by Utsav Acharya
January 24, 2020
3 mins read
Chris Cillizza Wikis
Real Name
Chris Cillizza
Birthday
20 February 1976
Birthplace
Marlborough, Connecticut
Zodiac Sign
Aquarius
Nationality
American
Ethnicity
Sicilian and Irish
Profession
Political commentator
Dating/Girlfriend
No
Married/Wife
Gia Cillizza
Salary/Income
Under Review
Net Worth
millions of dollar
Parents
Not Disclosed
Siblings
Not Disclosed
Inside Article
Chris Cillizza is an American political commentator who is working for the television news channel, CNN. He was also a co-host of the MySpace/MTV Presidential Dialogues and for The Tony Kornheiser Show. Besides reporting, Chris also wrote daily political weblogs for The Fix, The Washington, and Post.
Net Worth, Salary, and Net Worth
Married To Wife, Gia Cillizza
Parents, Family, and Siblings
Body measurement: Height and Weight
by Taboola
Sponsored Links
You May Like
Moses Lake: Unsold Never-Driven Cars Huge Clearance Sale: See PricesSUV Deals | Search Ads
Undo
Chris Cillizza is an American political commentator who is working for the television news channel, CNN. He was also a co-host of the MySpace/MTV Presidential Dialogues and for The Tony Kornheiser Show. Besides reporting, Chris also wrote daily political weblogs for The Fix, The Washington, and Post.
Chris Cillizza was born in Marlborough, Connecticut in 1976. On 20 th February, Chris celebrates his birthday and possesses the zodiac sign of Aquarius. Belonged to white ethnicity, he is the only child from his family. Regarding his education, he went to Loomis Chaffee School in Windsor, Connecticut. Then, he graduated from Georgetown University in 1998.
Net Worth, Salary, and Net Worth
Before starting his Journalism career, Chirs was working as a novelist and later intern for the conservative writers in George Will. He had desired to works at a sports writer but took a turn toward politics which would be less fun. Then, he joined the Washington, D.C. newspaper named Roll Call as their White House Correspondent and joined The Washington Post.
Eventually, Chirs did freelance work by working with The Atlantic Monthly, Slate, and Washingtonian. As a guest, he has appeared on MSNBC, Fox News Channel and CNN. Afterward, he was named MSNBC Political Analyst but resigned to join CNN.
In 2005, Chris began working for the blog, The Fix and wrote on a regular basis. Basically, his writing was focused on American electoral politics and commented on Congressional, Gubernatorial and presidential elections. He has even hosted the weekly Fic live chat, Cilizza. Chirs joined a political reporter and digital editor-at-large on CNN on 3 rd April 2007.
As of 2020, Chirs’s net worth could be estimated in millions of dollars. Talking about the salary, a CNN reporter’s average salary ranging from $48k to $52k.
Married To Wife, Gia Cillizza
Chirs is married to his beautiful wife, Gia Cillizza – who is a former Hockey player.  The couple shared their wedding oath on the 11 th of May 2013. The pair also welcomed two sons named Will Cillizza and Charlie Cillizza.
Chirs doesn’t hesitate to express his love toward his wife through social media. For instance, on 22 nd December 2019, he tweeted,
Today is my wife’s birthday. She is the funniest, smartest, kindest, most beautiful person I have ever met.
Chirs and his wife, Gia has also celebrated their 15 th wedding anniversary on 11 th May 2018.
Parents, Family, and Siblings
Born in the Cillizza family, Chris possesses the mixed descent of Sicilian and Irish. Though his parents’ name hasn’t been surface, the only thing is known that his father is a former elementary school teacher and his mother is a former insurance company employee.
Body measurement: Height and Weight
Talking about his body measurement, Chirs hasn’t shared his height and weight. He has black eye color and black hair color.