Sara Murray Bio, Age, Height, Family, Spouse, Children, CNN, Salary
Sara Murray Bio, Age, Height, Family, Spouse, Children, CNN, Salary and Net Worth
November 22, 2021 Gentrix Famous People in USA 0
Sara Murray Biography
Sara Murray is an American anchor, reporter, and political commentator. Currently, she serves as a political correspondent at CNN which is based in Washington D.C. The United States. Previously, she was an anchor for the wall street journal in New York, United States.
Sara Murray Age
How old is Sara? She is currently 36 years old as of 2021. In addition, she was born in Maryland, United States on March 31, 1985. Moreover, she celebrates her birthday on March 31 st with friends and family annually. Lastly, her zodiac earth sign is Aries.
Sara Murray Education
Murray attended Maryland University where she graduated with a Bachelor Of Arts Degree in journalism.
READ: Clarissa Ward Bio, Age, Height, Family, Spouse, Kids, CNN, Awards, Salary and Net Worth
Sara Murray Height/Weight
How tall is Sara? She currently stands at 5 feet and 8 inches (1.72 m) tall. However, we don’t have information on her other measurements including her weight, body size, and shoe size. Our team is currently reviewing this information and will update you here soon.
Sara Murray Family
Sara was born and brought up in Maryland, United States by both her parents. However, she has not disclosed any information concerning her parents’ names or occupations since she keeps her life private from the public. In addition, she has not revealed if she has any siblings or if she has any. Currently, we are reviewing this information and will update you here soon as we find any detail.
Sara Murray Husband/Spouse
Sara is married to her lovely husband called Garrett Haake. In addition, Garrett is a television producer currently serving as a correspondent at NBC News in Capitol Hill. Moreover, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in journalism from Methodist University.
In addition, the couple met while covering the presidential campaign of Mitt Romney. Moreover, the couple got married through a wedding ceremony which was attended by family members and close friends in Austin, Texas.
Sara Murray Children
The couple is proud parents of two lovely children. However, we don’t have any information concerning the children’s names or dates of birth since Sara keeps her family information a secret from the public. Currently, our team is reviewing this and will update you here once any information is found.
Sara Murray CNN
In 2015, Sara joined CNN and currently serves as a political correspondent.  In addition, she mainly covers Washington investigations and serves with the Justice Department team of CNN. Moreover, she also served as the White House correspondent and also covered the expansive Republican field.
Before CNN, Sara served the Wall Street Journal. Moreover, she worked as an anchor on their digital platform in New York. In addition, she also covered the presidential campaign of Mitt Romney in 2012. Furthermore, she also shed light on the inner campaigns which had high demand and also coved breaking news on the candidate’s comments to the High dollar donors.in addition, she also covered congress’s unsuccessful attempts to overthrow the U.S. immigration system in 2013.
In addition, Sara spent years looking into the 2008 financial crisis and the economic drop that occurred. Moreover, she also covered the presidential campaign of former United States President Donald Trump in November 2015. However, Donald Trump was not happy with some of the stories that were done by Sara and did an impression of her on stage.
Sara Murray Salary
How much does Sara earn? She earns good pay from her reporting career in CNN. Moreover, her salary ranges from $100,000 to $150,000 annually.
Sara Murray Net Worth
There is no doubt that Sara is an extraordinary reporter. In addition, she has managed to accumulate a good amount of wealth in her line of work. In detail, her net worth is worth $1.4 million dollars.
Kate Rooney CNBC, Bio, Age, Height, Marriage, Children, Salary and Net Worth
Suzanne Malveaux Bio, Age, Height, Family, Lesbian, Child, CNN, Salary and Net Worth