Paula Reid Bio, Age, Family, Husband, CNN, Leaving CBS, Worth, Salary
Paula Reid Biography, Age, Family, Husband, CNN, Leaving CBS, Net Worth and Salary
Posted by Admin 3 On June 22, 2021 0 Comment
Paula Reid Biography
Paula Reid is an American journalist and attorney. Reid is best known for working as the CNN senior legal affairs correspondent. In March 2021, she joined CNN. Prior to joining the station, she worked at CBS News and is currently based in Washington, D.C.
While working at CBS News, she was the White House Correspondent she appeared regularly on CBS Evening News, Face the Nation, and CBS This Morning. Paula also worked as a fill-in anchor on CBSN.
Reid covered the Special Counsel investigation of Robert Mueller and the 2016 Hillary Clinton email controversy. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Reid became known for pressing President Trump on his response to the crisis.
Paula Reid Age and Birthday
The American news anchor, Reid, was born in 1984 in Akron, Ohio, United States. Paula is 37 years old as of 2021. However, her exact date of birth is unavailable. We are nonetheless keeping tabs on her and will update this information as soon as it has been made available to the public.
Paula Reid Height and Weight
The American television personality, Reid, measures a standing height of 5 feet 7 inches tall which is equivalent to 1.70 meters. However, her weight as well as her other body measurements are currently under review and will soon be updated.
Paula Reid Photo
Paula Reid Family, Parents, and Siblings
Reid who is an American news anchor maintains a low profile about her personal life. Additionally, she has not disclosed any information concerning her parents, siblings nor her other relatives. This information is nonetheless under review and will soon be updated.
Paula Reid Dating, Husband and Children
The amazingly talented news anchor, Paula, is the loving wife of Jason Kolsevich. The amazing couple got married in April in Ipswich, MA. Although the couple resides in Washington, D.C., they are yet to reveal if they are parents or not.
Paula Reid Education and Career
Education
Paula earned her bachelor’s degree with a dual degree in psychology and English from the College of William & Mary. She graduated from Villanova University School of Law with a Juris Doctor in 2008. She passed the bar exams in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Additionally, she completed a Masters in Bioethics (MBE) from the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania in 2016.
Career
Reid is best known for working as the CNN senior legal affairs correspondent. In March 2021, she joined CNN. Prior to joining the station, she worked at CBS News and is currently based in Washington, D.C.
While working at CBS News, she was the White House Correspondent she appeared regularly on CBS Evening News, Face the Nation, and CBS This Morning. Paula also worked as a fill-in anchor on CBSN.
Reid covered the Special Counsel investigation of Robert Mueller and the 2016 Hillary Clinton email controversy. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Reid became known for pressing President Trump on his response to the crisis. In March 2021, Reid announced that she would be leaving CBS to join CNN as a senior legal affairs correspondent.
Paula Reid Net Worth and Salary
Over the years, Paula has made a great fortune from her career as a journalist. Additionally, sh has an estimated net worth of $1 million as well as an annual salary of $100k.
Paula Reid Instagram
To view her official Instagram page click here.
{ Comments are closed }