Dana Bash Net Worth, Husband, Age, Kids, Biography, Wiki, Age
Dana Bash Net Worth, Husband, Age, Kids, Biography, Wiki, Age
September 30, 2020 by Jeevan Shetty
Dana Bash
Dana Bash was born on June 15, 1971, and from New York City, New York, U.S. She is a Chief political correspondent for CNN, Journalist, and Anchorwoman, on September 29, 2020, Dana Bash shared her uncensored, brutally honest thoughts on what happened on stage between President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden.
She said “I’m just gonna say it like it is,” and added, “That was a s*** show.” Dana then said, “We’re on cable, and we can say that,” then she added “Apologies for being a little bit crude, but that’s the phrase I’m getting from both sides of the aisle on text,” Bash said. “And it’s the only phrase I can think of to really describe it.”
Dana Bash: “That was a shitshow.” pic.twitter.com/VrrowZItq3
— Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) September 30, 2020
Career
She is a CNN‘s chief political correspondent and since 2000, she has covered every presidential campaign for the network.
In CNN, Dana was responsible for breaking a 2002 story on the U.S. government’s secret intercepts of Al Qaueda translations the day before the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and this earned her Everett McKinley Dirksen for Distinguished Reporting of Congress Award from the National Press Foundation.
Furthermore, she serves as a moderator for CNN’s political town hall specials and moderated CNN’s first debate of the 2020 election cycle in Detroit. In 2019, she won the National Press Foundation’s Sol Taishoff Award for Excellence in Broadcast Journalism.
She joined CNN as a producer of their weekend programs such as Late Edition, Evans & Novak, and Inside Politics, in 2014 she was honored at Elle magazine’s “Women in Washington Power List” event. Dana knows for her commitment to her work and one such incident is, she was nine months pregnant when she reported on disgraced former Congressman Anthony Weiner‘s resignation.
Family
How old is Dana Bash? She was born on June 15, 1971, and from New York City, New York, U.S, she is 49 years old as of 2020.
Her father is Stuart Schwartz (Father) and Frances Weinman Schwartz (Mother), she also has a younger brother David Schwartz.
Talking about her education she attended Pascack Hills High School in Montvale and graduated cum laude with a bachelor’s degree in political communications from George Washington University.
Husband
Dana married and divorced twice, Jeremy Bash was her first husband and he was the former Chief of Staff of the U.S. Department of Defense and CIA during the Obama Administration and the were married from 1998 to 2007.
Her second husband was John King, who hosts CNN’s State of the Union and they were together from 2008 to 2012, the couple has one son, Jonah Frank King, who was born in June 2011.
Now, she’s in a relationship with actor Spencer Garrett, they met in 2013 after being introduced by mutual friends. Furthermore, the duo was seen on the red carpet for Samantha Bee’s Not The White House Correspondents’ Dinner in April 2017.
Her Net Worth is USD 7 Million as of 2020.
(Image Source: Dana Bash Instagram)