Jessica Schneider Wiki, Age, Wedding, Married, Husband, Boyfriend
Home
Celebrities
Published on February 10, 2017
Jessica Schneider Wiki, Age, Wedding, Married, Husband, Boyfriend
Journalism has always been Jessica Schneider's passion, while at the age of sixteen, her mother encourages her to join the TV club. She firmly trusts that a reliable, resourceful journalist must possess as much knowledge as possible, and it's only with a full breadth of knowledge and education that reporter can deliver on the expectation. She was born on April 26, 1970, in Manchester, England but later moved to New York with her parents.
By WN Writer
Quick Information
Date of Birth Apr 26, 1970
Age 51 Years, 11 Months
Nationality British
Profession Journalist
Marital Status Married
Husband/Spouse Mitch Schwartzman (m.2016)
Divorced Not Yet
Gay/Lesbian No
Net Worth $4 Million Dollars
Salary $350 Thousand Dollars
Ethnicity White
Social Media Instagram, Twitter
Children/Kids Not Yet
Height 5 Feet 10 Inches (178 cm)
Education Boston University
Journalism has always been Jessica Schneider's passion, while at the age of sixteen, her mother encourages her to join the TV club. She firmly trusts that a reliable, resourceful journalist must possess as much knowledge as possible, and it's only with a full breadth of knowledge and education that reporter can deliver on the expectation. She was born on April 26, 1970, in Manchester, England but later moved to New York with her parents.
Jessica's Career and Successions?
She joined CNN in April 2016 as a national correspondent, and in addition to being an award-winning reporter, she is also an attorney. Before, to join CNN, she had served as a journalist at WCBS-TV.
She started her career as a video reporter at the Time Warner cable station News 9, while she also served for two years as a litigation attorney at two New York City law firms.
How Much is Schneider's Worth?
Jessica has an estimated net worth to be $4 million dollars and get over $350 thousand dollars yearly salary from CNN as a national correspondent. Nevertheless, all of you know about her other profession as well, that she is a legal advisor or lawyer, which trade also helps to her add some others money amounts.
Unofficially, but some wiki has covered that she also has an own law firm in New York City as well, and also invested in some numbers of amounts in real estate business as well, it might be she will earn huge money in coming days.
A Secret Married Life!
She is one the best journalist and lawyer as well, and there is also huge fan following of her. And also many guys want her as their life partner because they all have not perfectly known about her private life. Well, people still more confused about her wedding, husband and also about her dating histories.
But the heartbreaking news for you, she is a married and also happily runs her family. These last couple of years has been busy and exciting, and she married her longtime boyfriend, Mitch Schwartzman.
The two met in 2011's summer in a local bar, from that time they started dating to each other. But in 2013, the couple decided to move their relationship girlfriend/boyfriend to husband and wife. And finally, they got married in 2016.
Short Bio:
This 46-years-old age CNN journalist or national correspondent is of the white ethnicity and holds the American nationality. Jessica still looks like young, hot and beautiful, while she disclosed about the fact of her glowing face and boy is a healthy diet and daily workout. She has a towering height of 5 feet 10 inches and also has a slim and attractive body figure and shape. If you want to find her more information, then you also got her on social media accounts.