Jamie Gangel Bio, Age, Family, Husband, CNN, Career, Net Worth
Jamie Gangel Bio, Age, Family, Husband, CNN, Career, Net Worth
Posted by Leen Kesh On July 24, 2021 0 Comment
Jamie Gangel Biography
Jamie Gangel is an award-winning television news reporter from the United States. She is currently a CNN veteran and special reporter.
Jamie Gangel Age/Birthday
Gangel was born in 1955 in New York City, U.S. She has not specified the exact month or date of her birth.
Jamie Gangel Height
Gangel stands at a height of 1.70 m (5 ft 8 in). His weight and other body measurements are still under review. We will provide this information as soon as it is available.
Jamie Gangel Family
Gangel was born to her parents Richard I. Gangel and Phyllis Gangel-Jacob. Her father was an investor while her mother was a justice of the New York Supreme court. When she was eleven months old, her parents divorced.
Her parents went separate ways and married. However, her stepdad, Bernard E. Jacob, is a law professor at Hofstra University, and her stepmother, Roni J. Gangel, is a Manhattan real estate entrepreneur.
Jamie Gangel Photo
Jamie Gangel Husband/Kids
Gangel has been married to her husband Daniel Silva a New York Times bestselling author since October 8, 1988. The couple resides in Florida together with their two children, twins Lily and Nicholas.
Jamie Gangel Education
Gangel graduated from Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service in 1977 with a Bachelor of Science degree. In 1976, she enrolled at Harvard University to study international economics.
Jamie Gangel Career
Gangel, an experienced correspondent with numerous awards, joins CNN in August 2015. She had been with NBC News since 1983, serving as National Correspondent for TODAY for nearly two decades, covering a wide range of topics from popular culture to hard news.
Gangel has become well recognized as TODAY’s National Correspondent for her long-form reports and interviews, featuring everyone from presidents and celebrities to everyday individuals with incredible stories. Gangel has profiled presidents George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, and Barack Obama, as well as dozens of other prominent figures, including Vice President Dick Cheney, first lady Laura Bush, first lady Barbara Bush, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Governor Jeb Bush, Governor Chris Christie, and Donald Trump.
Gangel has conducted interviews with music luminaries Eric Clapton and Keith Richards, ballet artist Mikhail Baryshnikov, cellist Yo Yo Ma, Arthur Miller, George Lucas, Quincy Jones, and iconic lyricist Burt Bacharach. She has covered stories for TODAY from Europe to Africa to South America.
Also, she covered the Iran-Iraq conflict in the Persian Gulf as part of the Pentagon pool in 1987. In 1984, she covered the presidential campaigns of Jesse Jackson, John Glenn, and Gary Hart, as well as Geraldine Ferraro’s vice-presidential campaign.
Among her, numerous honors and awards are Emmy, Edward R. Murrow, Clarion, AP, and Gracie awards.
Jamie Gangel Net Worth
Gangel has an estimated net worth that ranges between $1 million to $5 million.
Twitter
Tweets by jamiegangel