Golf property - villas apartments to buy on golf courses
Golf properties for sale and rent in Spain and Portugal
At Lucas Fox, we have golf property for sale and rent including private villas, country estates and golf apartments to buy overlooking fairways on some of the signature Spanish golf resorts.
As investment property demands continue to change in recent years, long-term investors are seeking ideal opportunities to combine well-valued properties with lifestyle interests. This makes golf properties for sale one of the most treasured and sought-after type of property in Spain, sure to maintain their value in the long term.
Golf property sales
Golf property long term rentals
We have golf properties available adjacent to some of the most exclusive golf parks and resorts in Mallorca and Ibiza, in Andalucia and the southern costas, and in Costa Brava and around Barcelona. Many offer the ultimate in lifestyle and luxury: with easy access to beaches along with their close proximity to the golf resorts.
Our selection of golf property for sale are usually superb, modern buildings offering all conveniences and contemporary designs, including large open spaces with ample natural light and large windows, spectacular views from living areas and terraces and balconies, name brand kitchen and bathroom fixtures, entertaining and private living spaces, and outdoor gardens, swimming pools or sunbathing areas.
Golf property for sale is a perfect buyers choice for personal use as a vacation home or residential property, and also make a model opportunity for rental investment use. Lucas Fox staff can assist you through this whole process, from selecting the ideal golf property for sale in Spain to establishing the property as a rental investment and helping you select short or long-term tenants that will appreciate all the advantages of the golf property.
Our golf property for sale affords an excellent mix of privacy, security and access. Properties often include state-of-the-art technologies in place to monitor guest arrivals or approaches to the property, while all have natural and building distribution that provides sightlines, natural barriers, and private pathways to ensure your privacy. While secluded and offering you full security and safety, golf properties are often in close proximity to key shopping villages and market opportunities, recreational facilities, and transport hubs.
Contact Lucas Fox staff now or review our golf properties for sale above to learn more about current investment and residential opportunities.
For sale, House / Villa €995,000
Maresme Coast, Arenys de Munt
487m² house / villa with 12,000m² garden for sale in Arenys de Munt
Bedrooms 6
Floorplan 487m²
Plot size 36,000m²
For sale, Golf property €1,100,000
PGA Catalunya
206m² golf property for sale in PGA, Girona
Bedrooms 3
Floorplan 206m²
Plot size 448m²
For sale, House / Villa €2,750,000
Marbella, Nueva Andalucía
441m² House / Villa with 1,118m² garden for sale in Nueva Andalucía
Bedrooms 5
Floorplan 441m²
Plot size 1,118m²
For sale, Golf property €3,000,000
PGA Catalunya
635m² Golf property for sale in PGA, Girona
Bedrooms 4
Floorplan 635m²
Plot size 2,003m²
For sale, Golf property €895,000
PGA Catalunya
168m² Golf property for sale in PGA, Girona
Bedrooms 4
Floorplan 168m²
Plot size 422m²
For sale, House / Villa Price on request
Santa Cristina d'Aro
280m² House / Villa for sale in Santa Cristina, Costa Brava
Bedrooms 4
Floorplan 280m²
Plot size 800m²