Capanes del Golf Apartments For Sale and Rent Benahavis
LUXURY LIFESTYLE
Capanes del Golf, Benahavis is perfect for long term living or owning a holiday home in the sun. The development is just 10 minutes drive to Puerto Banus and 20 minutes to Marbella centre.
Capanes del Golf is located in the wealthy and desirable municipality of Benahavis on the Costa del Sol. Inside Capanes del Golf you will find on-site facilities such as an indoor heated spa pool with waterfalls and jets, jacuzzi, sauna, steam room, gym and changing rooms. There are also four small outdoor pools and a wonderful beach style main pool.
SPACIOUS APARTMENTS
If you are looking to buy a luxury property in the Benahavis area, Capanes del Golf  is one of the most desirable urbanisations for Luxury Living and is located in one of the best postcodes on the Costa del Sol.
The spacious apartments for sale in Capanes del Golf range in size from 169m2 to 397m2 (including terraces). All of the apartments feature cream marble floors, double-glazing and plenty of storage in the numerous built in wardrobes.  There is hot and cold air conditioning / heating, under floor heating in the bathrooms. The fully fitted kitchens are equipped with Siemens electrical appliances.
Capanes del Golf offers fibre optic wifi up to 200mb. It comes with multi language TV channels. UK, German, Spanish, Scandinavian, Dutch, Russian and Arabic TV channels are available.
The development consists of 267 apartments set within 50,000 sq m of beautifully landscaped gardens. A team of friendly Spanish gardeners are onsite daily to keep the plants and grounds looking absolutely fantastic.
GOLF ON YOUR DOORSTEP
Capanes del Golf is perfect for a luxury golf holiday. The urbanisation is completely surrounded by El Higueral Golf Course which is currently a nine hole golf course. El Higueral Golf is owned and maintained by Marbella Golf Club. The El Higueral golf course is being extended by a further nine holes in the next few years.  A new bridge across the riverbed has been recently constructed. This will enable the golf buggies to crossover to the new extended 18 hole El Higueral Golf course.
As well as having it’s own golf course in Benahavis, Capanes del Golf is located next to other excellent golf courses in the direct Benahavis area; La Zagaleta, Los Arqueros, Atalaya, Monte Mayor, Marbella Club, El Paraiso, La Quinta and Los Flamingos.
Contact us for further information