Automotive Aftermarket Parts and Accessories | MyPushcart.com
Vehicle Remote Starters
Remote car starter systems are very popular aftermarket automotive accessories and there are systems available for virtually every modern vehicle. These systems provide a convenient comfort by allowing the consumer to normalize
        the vehicle's internal temperature before getting in to drive. Furthermore, some consider these systems an essential safety feature in that they can allow a windshield to thaw on a cold winter morning, or prevent a child
        from being burnt by a hot seat belt on a hot summer day.
With advancing technology, remote start manufacturers have been able to drastically simplify a once complicated and frustrating installation process.    There are many different types
        of remote start systems available and determining the best option for each application can be frustrating and time consuming.
Remote Starter Types
OEM "Add-on" Remote Start
1-Button Remote Start
Remote Start with Keyless Entry
2-Way Remote Start
Remote Start with Car Alarm
Smartphone Remote Start
OEM "Add-on" Remote Start
OEM Add-on remote start systems use the vehicle's pre-existing remote control system to start the car, and therefore does not include remotes or an antenna. Once installed, the user will push a simple sequence of buttons on the
          factory remote to start the car (e.g lock x 3, or lock-unlock-lock).
Benefits:
This type of system will not require carrying an additional key fob for operation (this is especially relevant for vehicle that have the key built into the key fob)
This system is typically less expensive than other types of systems
Limitations:
Since the system works off of the factory keyless entry system the range of operation is limited to the range of the factory system, which is usually only a couple hundred feet.
Some vehicle makes (e.g. Honda, Toyota) have a keyless entry systems that are disabled if the vehicle is running.  This means that if you remote start your car, you will have to use the key to manually unlock when
            you get in.