Alice Barr NBC, Wiki, Bio, Age, Family, Husband, Salary and Net Worth   | 
   Famous Americans Profiles
Alice Barr NBC, Wiki, Bio, Age, Family, Husband, Salary and Net Worth
Alice Barr is an American journalist working as a general assignment reporter working for NBC DFW. She joined NBC in May 2016.
BY October 21, 2021
Ad
Alice Barr Wiki
Alice Barr is an American journalist working as a general assignment reporter working for NBC DFW. She joined NBC in May 2016.
Alice Barr
Alice Barr Biography
Barr grew up in Bethesda, just outside Washington, D.C, USA. She lives in Metroplex with her fiance. She attended the University of Northwestern University’s Medill School of Journalism and graduated alma mater.
Alice Barr NBC 5 News
Alice joined NBC 5 News back in May 2016. She won an Emmy Award for her work on a local activist who gained a news perspective going through police shoot-don’t-shoot training.
Ad
Before going to Lone Star State, she used to work at KCTV5 situated in Kansas City. Alice has also worked at WIFR located in Rockford where she had many tasks.
She worked as an anchor, reporter, producer, video shooter, and editor as well. Barr has also worked in National newsrooms gaining much experience.
Ad
She was a desk assistant at NBC News Nightline and interned at Ted Koppel’s show. Alice has also worked as an intern at CNN, National Geographic and worked for documentary filmmakers, Steve James, and Peter Gilbert.
Alice Barr Age
Information about her age will be updated soon.
Ad
Alice Barr Family
Information will be updated soon.
Alice Barr Husband
She lives in Metroplex with her fiance.
Ad
Alice Barr Children
information will be updated soon.
Alice Barr Height
Information will be updated soon.
Alice Barr Salary
Alice’s salary is estimated to be between $10k to $50k per year.
Ad
Alice Barr Net Worth
Her net worth is estimated to around $250k.
Alice Barr Facebook
Barr Twitter
1
American
Oliver Bonas is a British businessman who is the founder and the head of the United Kingdom retail chain Oliver Bonas. He attended Marlborough College.
October 21, 2021