Melanie Zanona - Wikipedia, Education, Husband, Wedding, Bio
Home Reporter
You May Like
TikToker
Shawn Barboza
Singer
Anuel AA
Melanie Zanona
Melanie Zanona is a former staff reporter for The Hill and is currently working as the congressional reporter as well as Huddle author at Politico.
Read the complete article for Melanie Zonona [Politico, The Hill] Age, Birthday, College, Bio, Wiki, Bio, Net Worth, Husband, Wikipedia and so on.
Contents show
Wiki
Name:
Melanie Zanona
Date of Birth:
March 29, 1981
Nickname:
Melanie
Famous For:
Reporting
Family Name:
Zanona
Father and Mother:
NA
Marital Status:
Married
Boyfriend:
No
Spouse:
Jason Robert
Net Worth:
$400 Thousand
Birth Place:
Chicago, USA
Job:
Reporter
Height:
5 Feet 4 Inches
Weight:
55 Kg
Gender:
Female
Nationality:
American
Zodiac Sign:
Aries
Biography: Early Life, Career
Melanie was born on March 29, 1981, in Chicago, USA. From an early age, she loved writing and her family supported her extensively on her career. She started her career as the policy and legislative action reporter for CQ Roll Call.
Then, she worked as the staff reporter at The Hill. She covered reporting on house leadership in The Hill.
Currently, she has been working as a congressional reporter at Politico. She is also a Huddle author.
Melanie has broadly been into writings for Trump’s infrastructure plan, White House’s travel ban and foreign policy of the United States towards Cuba.
Instagram
Instagram
The link to this photo or video may be broken, or the post may have been removed.
Visit Instagram
Net Worth
As of 2022, the Net Worth of Melanie Zanona is $400 thousand USD. She contributes daily for THe Hill, Fox News, CNN, MSNBC, etc.
Education
Highest Qualification:
University Graduate
Degree:
BA in News Editorial Journalism
University:
University of Illinois
Physical Stats and more
Height & Weight: The height of Melanie Zanona is 5 Feet 4 Inches and her weight is 55 Kg.
Eye Color: Her eye color is brown.
Hair Color: Her hair color is brown.
Tattoo Details: She does not have a tattoo.
Affairs, Relationship Status, Gossips, and Rumors
She is already married and there are no rumors. The couple is living joyfully and there are no misunderstandings announced publicly. Both of them do not seem to have an extra affair.
If we find any rumors, gossips, and affairs of Melanie Zanona, we will update the article accordingly.
Family Members
She has three children. The name of her husband is Jason Robert. They were in a relationship for a long time and got married in 2013.
Jason holds the professions of a radio co-host at Gray Area’s Podcast and Account Executive at Washington Nationals.
Quick Facts
Wikipedia: Melanie Zanona is a reporter and author at Politico.
The birthday of Melanie Zanona is on March 29 and her age is 41 years.
The nationality of Melanie is American and ethnicity is white.
Her hobbies are cooking Italian food, playing with the boxer name Bodie, etc.
She had tweeted that Rep. Don Young(R-AK) physically shoved her during the altercation when she was trying to interview another lawyer who was outside. R-AK apologized to Melanie through a phone call later on.
Rep. @DonYoungAK just physically shoved me and told me to get out of his way “damnit” as I was trying to interview another lawmaker outside the door of the House chamber.
— Melanie Zanona (@MZanona) April 4, 2019
Don Young has called me to personally apologize, which I accepted and very much appreciate. Told him we were just trying to do our jobs (which he said he understood)! https://t.co/4LHu1xOVGZ
— Melanie Zanona (@MZanona) April 4, 2019
Social Media Accounts
Twitter: Click Here
Instagram: Click Here
Trump's Supreme Court pick rules in favor of existing law, says expert
Watch on
We hope you liked the article on her Wiki, Bio/ Biography, Net Worth, Birthday, Age, Height, Husband and so on.