RSX50.5X - Clifford 2-Way Security System / Remote Start System with Responder SST Technology
Home/
RSX50.5X - Clifford 2-Way Security System / Remote Start System with Responder SST Technology
RSX50.5X - Clifford 2-Way Security System / Remote Start System with Responder SST Technology
SKU #:                     77209
Be the first to review this product
$269.99
Retail: $499.99
($230.00 savings)
Availability: In Stock
Condition: Brand New
Sold As: Complete Sets
Warranty
* Required Fields
Qty:
Add to Cart
Add to Wishlist
Email to a Friend
Click to view larger image
Description
Description:
Responder SST Systems from Clifford are simply the most advanced 2-Way Security and Remote Start systems in the world! Responder SST systems employ Spread Spectrum Technology, digital frequency hopping and multiple frequency transmission to assure that, if a frequency is blocked, the signal still goes through. Responder SST also uses dual error correction systems to combat signal data corruption and minimize signal interference. The result is rock solid range of up to one full mile! The interactive display on the Responder remote confirms all commands - virtually instantly - with easy to understand icons, plus text! It alerts users to security system triggers by beeping or vibrating when out of audible range of the siren. And of course the Clifford Matrix 50.5X will start your vehicle with the push of a button, and you'll get confirmation back that it started, from up to one mile away!
Features:
6 Channel Remote Start/Security/Keyless Entry System
Confirms commands and system triggers on the transceiver LCD screen
Clone-Safe Code-Hopping
Parking Light Flash
Failsafe Starter Kill
Anti-Grind
Stinger DoubleGuard Shock Sensor
Revenger Six-Tone Siren
Bright Blue LED Status Indicator
Miniature XCRS (Extreme Capacity Relay Satellite)
Defroster Output
Built-in Turbo Timer
Dome Light Supervision
Comfort Closure
4 Auxiliary Outputs
Horn Honk
Includes One 2-Way Responder SST Transceiver
RS-X-50.5-X rs x 50.5 x RSX 50.5X
Additional Information
“Very pleased with my purchase. I ordered a sundown sa 15 that arrived early.”
Lawrence P. (Durham, NC)
View All Testimonials