Rachael Bade CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Wedding, Salary, Net Worth
Rachael Bade CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Husband, Wedding, Ballet, Salary, and Net Worth
Jane Teresa JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Rachael Bade Bio | Wiki
Rachael Bade is an American journalist, co-author, and political analyst for CNN. She is also a former classical ballet dancer. Before joining CNN, Rachael was working as a Congress reporter for The Washington Post until December 2020.
Rachael Bade Age
She was born on July 19, 1989, in Tippy City, Ohio, in the United States. Rachael is 32 years old.
Rachael Bade Height
She is a woman of above-average stature. Rachael’s height is 5 ft 7 in ( Approx 1.7m).
Rachael Bade Family
She is a native of Tippy City, Ohio, in the United States. Rachael grew up dancing ballet. Despite being a well-renowned journalist, She has been secretive of her private life that she has kept undisclosed the identity of her family members including her mother, father, and siblings. However, we are keeping tabs on her for a timely update once new developments arise.
Rachael’s photo
Rachael Bade Husband | Spouse
She is happily married to her lovely husband, Alex Bishop. Rachael and her husband got married on June 4, 2016. Her husband was diagnosed with a rare seizure disorder that got triggered by his lifelong struggle with, bipolar type 1, w/ PNES in February 2020. Rachael and her husband reside in Washington D. C.
Rachael Bade Wedding
She is happily married to her lovely husband, Alex Bishop. Rachael and her husband exchanged their wedding vows on June 4, 2016. The wedding ceremony was held at a Tuscan-style mini vineyard in Stafford, Virginia, at Potomac Point Winery. After the wedding, the couple left for two weeks for their honeymoon in Italy. Rachael and her husband met in 2007 at the Cafeteria while they were both in their sophomore year. The couple later got married in 2016 after dating for nine years. Rachael and her husband reside in Washington D. C.
Rachael Bade Education
She earned her bachelor of arts degree in political science and journalism in 2010, from the University of Dayton.
Rachael Bade Cnn
She is currently working as a political analyst for CNN. Before joining CNN, Rachael was working as a Congress reporter for the Washington Post until December 2020. Prior to working for the Post, she was working for POLITICO covering Congress for six years. Rachael began her journalism career at Congressional Quarterly and Roll Call as a reporter.
Some of Rachael’s colleagues at CNN includes;
Chris Cillizza – politics reporter.
Ann O’Neill – writer and producer.
Zachary Cohen – national security reporter.
Martin Savidge – anchor and correspondent.
Alexandra Field – anchor and reporter.
Rachael Bade Washington Post
Before joining CNN, she was working for the Washington Post as a Congress reporter since 2019. While working at the Washington Post, Rachael provided coverage for policy clashes with the White House, the oversight of the Trump administration by the House Democrats, the inner workings of the Democratic leadership team, and also the dynamics animating the historic freshman class. Prior to joining the Washington Post, she was working for POLITICO covering Congress for six years. Rachael left Washington Post for CNN in December 2020.
Rachael Bade Politico
Prior to joining the Washington Post in 2019, Rachael was working for POLITICO covering Congress for six years. While working for POLITICO, she chronicled President Trump’s remaking of the GOP, churned out stories containing the behind-the-scenes details on the struggle between the members fearful of the new direction of the Republican party and pro-Trump lawmakers. Before joining POLITICO in 2013, Rachael was working as a reporter for Congressional Quarterly and Roll Call.
Rachael Bade Ballet
While schooling at High School, she invested 30 hours a week to become a professional ballet dancer. Rachael trained under Barbara Pontecorvo for a decade, attaining leading roles in various performances including; Valse-Fantaisie, Serenade, Who Cares, and Concerto Barocco at Gem City Ballet. Additionally, she has trained one summer with American Ballet Theatre in New York, and also she has trained for three summers in Seattle for Pacific Northwest Ballet. Rachael has danced with Ballet Austin, Ballet ADI, MOVEIUS Contemporary Ballet, and Dissonance Dance Theatre. She also did smaller dance projects Teatro Internacional, a District Ballet.
Rachael Bade Book
She is the co-author of the book, A Perfect Phone Call: The Impeachment of Donald Trump along with Karoun Demirjian. The book narrates the inner workings of impeachment by former President Trump. The Book is a product of HarperCollins Publishers.
Rachael Bade Eyes
She is a woman of above-average stature who possesses blue eyes.  In June 2018, she wrote on her Twitter handle that all eyes were on former President Trump as he was trekking to Capitol Hill to determine the fate of the House GOP DACA Bill. However, there is no further information concerning Rachael’s eyes.
Rachael Bade Salary
She is currently working as a political analyst for CNN. Rachael’s salary is $78,500 annually.
Rachael Bade Net Worth
She started her broadcast career in 2010, and therefore, there is no doubt that she has accumulated a decent fortune for herself over the years. Rachael’s net worth is $1.5 million.
Who Is Rachael Bade
She is an American journalist, co-author, and political analyst for CNN. She is also a former classical ballet dancer. Before joining CNN, Rachael was working as a Congress reporter for The Washington Post until December 2020.
Is Rachael Blade Married
She is happily married to her lovely husband, Alex Bishop. Rachael and her husband got married on June 4, 2016. Her husband was diagnosed with a rare seizure disorder that got triggered by his lifelong struggle with, bipolar type 1, w/ PNES in February 2020. Rachael and her husband reside in Washington D. C.
How Old Is Rachael Blade
She was born on July 19, 1989, in Tippy City, Ohio, in the United States. Rachael is 32 years old.
Rachael Bade Facebook