Hilary Rosen CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, Salary and Net Worth
Hilary Rosen CNN, Bio, Wiki, Age, Height, Wife, Salary and Net Worth
Ann JOURNALISTS, USA JOURNALISTS' BIOS 0
Hilary Rosen Bio, Wiki
Hilary Rosen is a political contributor for CNN. Currently, she is serving at CNN as an adviser to Democratic candidates and progression. In addition, she is the former Chairman and CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America. Hilary is not only a communication consultant but also a Democratic pundit and has consistently been one of CNN’s best Democratic contributors.
Previously, she served in politics for the New Jersey Governor Brendan Byrne and, US Senator Bill Bradley. Later on, Hilary started to serve in the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) as a staff in the year 1987. Through her dedication and hardworking, she made RIAA chairwoman and CEO in the year 1998, where she worked as chairwoman and CEO from the year 1998 to the year 2003.
Hilary Rosen Age
She was born on October 22, 1958, in west orange, New Jersey in the United States. Hilary is 62 years old.
Hilary Rosen Height
She is a woman of average stature. Hilary stands at a height of 5 ft 3 in (Approx 1.6 m).
Rosen’s photo
Hilary Rosen Family
She was born and raised to a Jewish Family in west Orange, New Jersey. Hilary’s dad served as an insurance agent and her mum was the first city councilwoman. Later on, her parents divorced while she was in college. However, Hilary has not mentioned either the names of her parents or if she has siblings.
Hilary Rosen Wife
She is a lesbian. However, Hilary had a partner named Elizabeth Birch. The two shared a fantastic bond and remained as a happy couple until catastrophe came and devastated their relationship. The couple always wanted babies in their lives. Later on, they decided to go through adoption and adopted twins. It was so challenging when the partners divorced and one has to take care of the children all on their own. In addition, Hilary has never explained her personal life and their love affair, and the reason for their separation.
Hilary Rosen Weight Loss
Most people are more concerned about her weight loss and are curious if there is some illness that is bothering Hilary. However, Hilary has not opened up about any of her diseases. Apparently, her weight loss is due to her ascending age.
Hilary Rosen Education
While she was in high school, Hilary served as the president of the student council. Later on, for her undergraduate study, she went to George Washington University. Hilary did her best and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in international business in the year 1981.
Hilary Rosen Cnn
She began her career when she worked in politics for New Jersey Governor Brendan Byrne and, US Senator Bill Bradley. Due to her fresh and perfect leadership, the company became the most influential voice in the music industry. Hillary left the company in the year 2003. Later on, she also began to serve at CNBC and MSNBC as a commenter, but finally, in the year 2008, she signed for CNN, the same year. In addition, Hilary joined in the Washington editor at a large and political director. Moreover, she is a talented, powerful, and successful media person. Despite that, Hilary is the founder of Business Forward and Rock the Vote and also works on the boards of the Center for American Progress Action Fund, LPAC, and the Creative Coalition.
Hilary’s colleagues at CNN include:
Will Ripley – anchor
MJ Lee – political reporter
Manu Raju – political reporter
Frederik Pleitgen – anchor
Dan Simon – anchor
Chloe Melas – entertainment reporter
Dan Merica – political reporter
Tom Sater – Meteorologist reporter
Kristie Lu Stout – anchor
Paula Newton – reporter
Jeanne Moos – reporter
Hilary Rosen Howard University
On November 13, the year 2019, Howard University announced the election of the new members to the board of trustees. The members were Hilary Rosen, the general trustee; Chris Washington, the alumni trustee; Travis Randle, the graduate student trustee; and Marquis Taylor, the undergraduate student trustee.
Wayne says they are excited to have these dynamic leaders bring their skills and passion to the Howard University board of trustees. The member’s experience in their respective areas of public policy, marketing, and business will complement the existing team as they continue to move the institution forward.
Hilary Rosen SKDKnickerbocker
She is a partner at SKDKnickerbocker. Hilary is a well-known political and media strategist and on-air CNN analyst. In addition, she is a co-founder of the TIME’S UP Legal Defense Fund, which is the organization created in January the year 2018 by women in the entertainment industry in order to support survivors of sexual harassment in the workplace.
Previously, she worked as both a chairman and CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), the best trade association of America’s record companies, where Hilary helped drive the industry’s transition to a digital marketplace. She helped to launch the Washington, D.C. bureau of the Huffingpost.com as political director and editor-at-large for a period of two years after leaving RIAA in the year 2003.  Hilary also consulted for many techs and media companies with projects at Facebook, Showtime Networks, MTV, and Apple Inc. Prior to CNN. Furthermore, she was a political and business commentator at CNBC and MSNBC.
Hilary Rosen Salary
She is a Cnn political correspondent. However, Hilary earns a decent salary as a Cnn news anchor and political reporter. Hilary’s average salary is $91,213 per year.
Hilary Rosen Net Worth
She is a CNN News anchor and political reporter. Therefore, there is no doubt Hilary has accumulated a decent fortune over the years. Hilary’s estimated net worth is $877,109.
How Old Is Hilary Rosen
She was born on October 22, 1958, in west orange, New Jersey in the United States. Hillary is 62 years old.
Is Hilary Rosen Married
She is a lesbian. However, Hilary had a partner named Elizabeth Birch. The two shared a fantastic bond and remained as a happy couple until catastrophe came and devastated their relationship. The couple always wanted babies in their lives. Later on, they decided to go through adoption and adopted twins.
Who Is Hilary Rosen
Hilary Rosen is a political contributor for CNN. Currently, she is serving at CNN as an adviser to Democratic candidates and progression. In addition, she is the former Chairman and CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America.