Filtered Cigarette Holder - Friend Multi Slim Silver Roll up for sale online | eBay
eBay
Collectables
Tobacciana & Smoking Supplies
Collectable Cigarette Holders
CURRENTLY SOLD OUT
Filtered Cigarette Holder - Friend Multi Slim Silver Roll up
24 product ratings
About this product
Best-selling in Cigarette Holders
See all
20 X 10 Filtro Neto Cigarette Holder Filters Tips Reduce Tar and & Nicotine 200
(13)
£3.33 New
---- Used
5 X 10 Filtro Neto Cigarette Holder Filters Tips Reduce Tar and & Nicotine 50
(10)
£7.80 New
---- Used
David Ross Cigarette Filters 6 Packets 60
£27.50 New
---- Used
Nicless Disposable Cigarette Filters 1000 Filters
£33.99 New
---- Used
Filter Tips Cigarette Cigarette Holders
About this product
Product Key Features
Material
Silver
Type
Cigarette Holders
5 out of 5 stars
by kare.hatch14 Sep, 2017
Cigarette holder
These are brilliant as I smoke roll ups and used to get stains on my fingers,  and felt they were too strong and also wanted to cut down the amount of tar etc, these do it all, no stained fingers anymore, a smoother and milder smoke, and the filter collects all the tar. I can't smoke without these at all now.
Verified purchase: Yes | Condition: New
5 out of 5 stars
by 123-jax12302 May, 2019
Fab.. very recommended.
A "must have" item if u wanna reduce tar in ur lungs..!  Slightly weakens strength of pull & taste on ciggies, but thats becoz it filtering the "rubbish" ,& u can see all the collected tar in the cartridge!!  Also good if u trying to give up or minimise smoking. (Especially when u see the full cartridge, it quite. An incentive ). Have been smoking over 45 yrs,  been using one for years, & will always use one, till the time I decide to give up (if that day ever comes 😉)
Verified purchase: Yes | Condition: New
5 out of 5 stars
by footbluehounds08 Feb, 2017
Useful bit of kit
Having been using these for many years, they are a useful bit of kit on many levels, the price is really good as well,.
Verified purchase: Yes | Condition: New
5 out of 5 stars
by please-with-a-c...27 Jan, 2018
Perfect ciggy holder
I have been using these for a few years now.  They are small enough to fit into a small tin along with your pre-rolled ciggys for the day.  The additional filter in them gives a smoother, less harsh smoke.

My main reason for using a holder is that I suffer badly with nicotine stains on my fingers with home rolled cigarettes and using one of these eliminates this completely.

For both reasons (as above) I highly recommend these cigarette holders.
Verified purchase: Yes | Condition: New
5 out of 5 stars
by aliciajohnlee21 Aug, 2019
great
works well but filter needs changing every 5 cigarettes  wish I could get washable one. yellow fingers gone  , that's the reason I bought it
Verified purchase: Yes | Condition: New
About eBay
Announcements
Community
Safety Centre
Seller Centre
VeRO: Protecting Intellectual Property
Policies
Help & Contact
Site Map
Copyright © 1995-2022 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved. User Agreement, Privacy, Cookies and AdChoice
Norton Secured - powered by DigiCert