CNN's Kaitlan Collins Wiki: Age, Married, Husband, Family, Height, Salary
Home
Celebrities
Last Updated on March 19, 2021
CNN's Kaitlan Collins Wiki: Age, Married, Husband, Family, Height, Salary
Kaitlan Collins is a White House reporter who covered the 2016's United States Presidential Election between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. 
She was working in CNN as a White House Correspondent based in Washington, D.C. The TV personality was banned from a press visit in July 2018 after raising "inappropriate questions" about Putin's decision to delay the Washington meeting.
By WN Writer
Quick Information
Date of Birth Apr 07, 1922
Age 100 Years, 0 Months
Nationality American
Profession Journalist
Marital Status Unmarried
Divorced Not Yet
Boyfriend/Dating Will Douglas
Gay/Lesbian No
Net Worth Not Disclosed
Ethnicity White
Social Media Instagram, Twitter
Children/Kids Not Yet
Height N/A
Education Prattville High School
Siblings No
Kaitlan Collins is a White House reporter who covered the 2016's United States Presidential Election between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
She was working in CNN as a White House Correspondent based in Washington, D.C. The TV personality was banned from a press visit in July 2018 after raising "inappropriate questions" about Putin's decision to delay the Washington meeting.
How Did Kaitlan Collins Gather Her Net Worth?
Kaitlan, 29, has garnered her net worth of around $1.5 million from her career as an American journalist. She joined the CNN network in June 2017 as a White House Reporter.
The White House correspondents bag at least 100k as their wage. Their income varies from $83K to $112K, and the top-earner makes more than $129K. The individuals also receive compensation which includes base salary, assets, and bonus. Kaitlan, who is working with one of the leading American Media companies, CNN, is also one of the top-earners, who enjoys a handsome salary.
Barred From White House Citing 'Inappropriate Questions'
Kaitlan Collins has been banned by the White House for a press visit in late July 2018 after she asked President Donald Trump about Russian President Vladimir Putin's postponed visit. The CNN reporter also asked Trump about the Michael Cohen tapes, which resulted in her being barred from a Rose Garden event citing that she asked 'inappropriate' questions.
Trump was ready to invite him to Washington for a meeting over the fall, but Trump's conference came to backslash after Congress members objected to their meeting during the fall of 2018.
Again on 2021, former President Donald Trump directed the former press secretary to boot Collins out of the briefing room. He even called the former secretary ‘weak’ after she refused to do so.
See Also (Russian alleged agent) : Who is Maria Butina? Exclusive Facts You Need to Know
The White House members, Bill Shine and Sarah Sanders, said that she asked 'inappropriate' questions.
CNN released the statement regarding Kaitlan Collins White House ban on 25 July 2018 (Photo: Twitter)
In the report, CNN added that the 'decision is retaliatory in nature and not indicative of an open and free press.' The president of Fox News, Jay Wallace, expressed support for CNN and released the statement declaring that 'the news panel members stand in strong solidarity with CNN for journalists’ rights as part of a free and unfettered press.'
You Don't Want To Miss:Chris Christie Wife, Family, Net Worth.
Is Collins` Married?
CNN's White House Correspondent is active on her social media.
Previously, she was flaunting photos with her boyfriend, Will Douglas, on her Instagram. Will is the founder of Crimson Care Pharmacy Group, located in Sulpher Springs, Texas. Rumor says that Will and Collins are allegedly engaged.
Kaitlan enjoyed her vacation with Will and their close friends in 2016. On 6 May 2016, she posted a photo on her Instagram, in which she was seen on a beach, swimming and drinking coconut juice. They had traveled to Cancún, Quintana Roo, City in Mexico to spend their holidays.
Tall Partner: Kaitlan Collins enjoys her time with her partner, Will Douglas, who is taller than her in height (Photo: Instagram)
Short Bio
Kaitlan Collins celebrates her birthday on April 7. She was born in the year 1992.
She attended Prattville High School in Prattville, Alabama. As per wiki, Collins graduated from the University of Alabama with a BA in journalism and political science.