Dana Bash CNN, Bio, Age, Wife, Partner, Son, Education, Height, Salary
Home United States [USA] Dana Bash CNN, Bio, Age, Wife, Partner, Son, Education, Height, Net Worth, Salary, Spencer Garrett and 1990
Dana Bash CNN, Bio, Age, Wife, Partner, Son, Education, Height, Net Worth, Salary, Spencer Garrett and 1990
Dalmas
Dana Bash Image
Dana Bash Biography | Wikipedia
Dana Bash is an American Journalist and News Anchor currently serving as a political correspondent for CNN News based in New York City. Previously, she served as a behind the scene executive producer for CNN’s Late Edition, Evans & Novak and Inside Politics before she was promoted. Bash even worked as an intern for various media stations like NBC News and CBS News in New York City
Dana Bash Education
Bash finished her high school studies at Pascack Hills High School in Montvale in New Jersey. Later, she graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in political communications from George Washington University. Dana holds an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Franklin Pirce University in New Hampshire.
Dana Bash Age
How old is Dana? Bash is 50 years old as of 2021. She was born Dana Ruth Schwartz on June 15, 1971, in New York City, New York, United States. Her birthday is celebrated on 16th June every year. Her zodiac birth sign is Gemini. ALSO READ: Jeff Zucker
Dana Bash Nationality | Ethnicity
Bash holds American nationality and citizenship by birth. She was born and brought up in New York City, New York, United States. She belongs to the white-American ethnicity/heritage/ ancestry.
Dana Bash Height | Body Measurements
Dana stands at an average height of 5 feet 6 inches (1.73 m). She also maintains an average bodyweight of around 58 kilograms. She has an hourglass body shape and her other body measurements are 34-24-33 respectively. Bash also has gorgeous blonde hair and a pair of dark brown eyes.
Dana Bash Family | Parents
Bash was brought up in the Uppstate neighborhood of New Jersey, New York by his loving parents. She grew up as the daughter of Frances Shwartz (mother) and Stuart Schwartz (father). Her mother worked as an author and professional educator while her father was an executive producer who was in charge of ABC News operations off-camera. Dana’s parents first lived in Washington DC before finally settling in New Jersey. Her passion for media studies developed after she visited her father’s workplace at one point in her life as a high school student.
Dana Bash Partner| Spencer Garrett | Husband
Who Is Dana Married To Now? Bash was married to her ex-husband, John King, a CNN correspondent from 2008 to 2011. Before King, she was married to her first husband, Jeremy Bash from 1998 until they finally announced their divorce in 2007. Dana gave birth to her first child with her second ex-husband King back in June 2011. As of 2021, Dana is speculated to be in a relationship with Spencer Garret for close to eight years now since 2013.
Dana Bash Son
Dana shares one son with her second husband John King. King and Bash got married in 2008 but their divorce was finalized in early 2012. Dana’s son si named Jonah Frank King. He was born in June 2011.
Dana Bash Salary
Bash working as a political correspondent and news anchor for CNN News based in New York City, New York, earns an annual salary ranging from $98,000 to $100, 000.
Dana Bash CNN
Dan is well recognized for working as a political correspondent for CNN News based in New York City. She first joined the network as an intern producer back when she was a college student. Bash was in charge of producing the stations the Late Edition, Inside Politics and Evans & Novak. She was then promoted to do a special coverage of the United States Senate.
Before CNN, Dana worked as a news anchor and producer for NBC News for one year and CBS news as an intern. Additionally, she was among the women honored at Elle magazine’s 2014 Women in Washington Power List. She also hosted the 2019 Democratic presidential primary debate where Kamala Harris made a viral statement to Joe Biden. Dan also gained more attention as the ex-wife of veteran CNN News reporter and anchor named John King.
John King Dana Bash
John King is a renowned American Journalist and News anchor currently known for working as a chief national correspondent for CNN News based in Washington DC. He is also the weekly roundtable political contributor of CNN’s Inside Politics program. Dana and King got married in 2008, welcomed their firstborn son in 2011 but finalized their divorce in 2012.
Dana Bash Net Worth 2021
Bash is an American Journalist and political correspondent who has an estimated net worth of around $2 million dollars as of 2021.
Dana Bash 1950 Called
According to our findings, Dana and her colleague David Chalian reacted to Donald Trump’s tweet known as 1950 called. The two criticized how Trump was attacking a low-income housing program claiming that the average all-American suburban housewife will be voting for him during the 2020 presidential elections.